---
title: Dev communities
who: Rosie Sherry
whoLink: https://twitter.com/rosiesherry
org: Orbit
orgLink: https://orbit.love/
what: 
 We discuss why community is not marketing, how devrel and community are 
 different, who owns community and what that might mean with web3 & 
 decentralization, and what essential tools you need for managing communities.
season: 2
episode: 7
date: 2022-02-17T08:00:00Z
duration: 28:10
episodeURL: https://cdn.simplecast.com/audio/10488ddf-3ca4-4300-9391-c2967d806334/episodes/fa34a600-4345-4f17-b64b-ec5cf09c22f8/audio/e06049c7-ba55-493f-9716-9a0d3605a3d9/default_tc.mp3
draft: false
summary:
 Dev communities - a devtools discussion with Rosie Sherry (Orbit). Episode 7 
 (Season 2) of the Console DevTools Podcast.
metaDescription:
 Dev communities - a devtools discussion with Rosie Sherry (Orbit). Episode 7 
 (Season 2) of the Console DevTools Podcast.
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
isSubpage: podcast-episode
pageType: podcast-episode
customPageStyle: true
xlViewport:
 largeText: true
topImg1Src: /img/podcast/orbit-rosie-sherry-profile.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/orbit.love.png
ogImg: /img/podcast/orbit-rosie-sherry-profile.jpg
authorName: David Mytton
authorURL: https://davidmytton.blog/start
authorImg: /img/david.jpg
authorBio:
 is co-founder of Console. From 2009-2018, David was CEO at Server Density, a
 SaaS server monitoring startup used by hundreds of customers to collect
 billions of time series metrics from millions of servers. He is also a
 researcher in sustainable computing at Uptime Institute and affiliated with
 Imperial College London. David has been a developer for 15+ years.
---

### Episode notes

{{< div-custom class="aside" data="data-inline-aside-content-wrapper" >}}
{{< div--close >}}

In this episode we speak to Rosie Sherry, Community Lead at
[Orbit](https://orbit.love/), a community management software company. We
discuss why community is not marketing, how devrel and community are different,
who owns community and what that might mean with web3 & decentralization, and
what essential tools you need for managing communities.

Things mentioned:

- [Ministry of Testing](https://www.ministryoftesting.com/)
- [Discord](https://discord.com/)
- [Slack](https://slack.com/)
- [luma](https://lu.ma/)
- [Butter.us](https://www.butter.us/)
- [Notion](https://www.notion.so/)
- [Miro](https://miro.com/)
- [Rosieland](https://rosie.land/)

{{< rich-title-5 icon="future-head" >}}About Rosie Sherry{{</ rich-title-5 >}}

Rosie Sherry is Community Lead at Orbit, a community management software
company. Prior to Orbit, Rosie founded the worldâ€™s largest testing community -
Ministry of Testing - and led community at Indie Hackers.

### Highlights

{{< podcast-episode/clipping time="01:20" >}}

**David:** ...

**Brooklyn:** ...

{{</ podcast-episode/clipping >}}

{{< box-collapsible title="Full transcript" class="podcast-transcript is-expanded" >}}

**David:** Welcome to the Console podcast. I'm David Mytton, co-founder of
Console.dev, a free weekly newsletter highlighting the best and most interesting
tools for developers.

In this episode, I speak with Rosie Sherry, Community Lead at Orbit, a community
management software company. We discuss why Community is not marketing, how
DevRel and Community are different, who owns Community and what that might mean
with Web 3.0 & decentralization, and what essential tools you need for managing
communities. We're keeping this to 30 minutes. So let's get started.

I'm here with Rosie Sherry. Rosie, thanks for joining the Console podcast.

**Rosie:** Thanks David, for having me.

**David:** Let's start with a brief background. Tell us a little bit about what
you are currently doing and how you got here.

**Rosie:** Currently, I work for Orbit, which is community software, community
analytics. So it's kind of behind the scenes of community, rather than trying to
host a community itself. I'm there as a Community Lead, I kind of head up more
the education angle and currently focusing on the Orbit model as well, which is
a framework for building communities. I've been there about six months now,
prior to that, I led the community at Indie Hackers. I did that for a couple of
years. I kind of got into that partly because I'd done community before, but
also because I was an Indie Hacker, myself. Nice gig, nice opportunity to work
with Portland. For me, trying to understand how they run community was
interesting. And then prior to that, I started in tech back in something like
2000. So it was, I was starting to feel a bit old.

It's been like 20 years now, which is crazy to think about, but I started as a
tester. So I did that for a few years as I was doing that, I kind of discovered
the social web and I kind of got excited about all of that stuff happening, kind
of like when Twitter came about and all of that. And that's kind of when I
discovered communities, I guess I was looking for excuses to start a community.
So I started a community for software testers, because I was one myself and I
didn't think there was much out there. That was ministry of testing. So, I spent
10 years working on that, building it up as, initially just like a side project,
I didn't really think too much of it, but I managed to turn it into, the leading
testing community out there. Bootstrapped or Indy Hacked, as you would say now,
into a seven-figure company pre-COVID, more like a six-figure one now, but still
going strong. Hasn't laid anyone off which we're quite proud of all of. Spent 10
years doing that. So, that was interesting.

**David:** Or should we start with defining what community means then? What does
that mean to you?

**Rosie:** It's a big question. What does it mean to you? I'll ask you first.

**David:** So suppose in the context of software development, specifically.

**Rosie:** Yeah.

**David:** The community, that's the word we'd throw out, right? Get the
community to participate. Which code, I suppose, means people committing code
often that's assumed to be on GitHub, but certainly not exclusively. People
making contributions to Open Source and discussing code. How would you start to
add the components together to build a community?

**Rosie:** Yeah, I mean there's a lot of hype around community now. I think
since the pandemic, there's definitely been a lot of interest, a lot of new
vendors coming about on new tools. Definitely, before the pandemic, there wasn't
this kind of level of interest. I've been preaching it all these years and no
one would listen to me and now finally, finally people are listening. I'm not
big on specific definitions, but I think generally it's like people having
something in common and then in addition to that, striving towards something in
common as well. Similar goals, similar vision, I think those are the two core
things that kind of bring a community together.

**David:** So, those two core features and then it's context specific software
or whatever it might be?

**Rosie:** Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it can be so random sometimes you know, at Orbit,
we described the three P's of communities: Community of Product, which are
probably a lot of developer-type communities; Community of Practice, which is
like what Ministry of Testing was, they didn't build a specific software tool,
it was more about improving the industry and then Community of Play is more
like, I guess, your sports clubs or more like things that aren't so serious, but
are still important, right, that we have as human beings. But yeah, I think
Community of Product is mostly, I think where devs are at, but I think it
probably overlaps a lot with Community of Practice.

**David:** Right. Because you could have open source projects as a product, but
you could also have the communities of languages, which I suppose could be both.
Right?

**Rosie:** Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. And, like Orbit has, a bit of both so
they're product, but I head up the community of practice side of things. We feel
we need to educate people in community. So there's always going to be a bit of
both. Most communities tend to have a mixture of at least two. It's not always
true, but you know yeah.

**David:** But you've said that community is not marketing. Can you explain that
a little bit?

**Rosie:** I have this gripe, this is only since the pandemic, because the
pandemic has brought on this huge interest in community. What's happened, as a
result is business people, marketing people are saying, "oh, community's a new
thing. We have to invest in community." They end up saying community is a new
marketing. It's like, no. No it's not. Stay away from community, please.
Community is special within its own rights. It has its own goals. The goal of
community is not to sell a product. If my boss came around to me today and said,
"go do the sales pitch" or something, I'd be like "no, that's not right that you
do that." And he's never asked me that, and he never will, but just an example
is we don't do sales. We're not there for sales, as community, we're there to
help people, help them through their community journey, help them thrive, in
whichever way we can, in using whatever resources we have access to, whereas
marketing has a different goal.

Their goal is to promote products, to sell stuff, to get out there into the
market. And that's great you know, it's like: marketing, go do your thing,
right, but please don't take over the community and try to sell to them and
bring those kind of practices into community because that, often it kills a
community, to be honest, if people come in doing that, people don't come to a
community to be sold to.

**David:** Where do you see developer relations sitting in between those and how
does that relate to community?

**Rosie:** Yeah. Developer relations is interesting. I think, working at Orbit
is probably my first experience of being more exposed to that, or even trying to
understand properly what developer relations is. There's definitely overlap,
right? There's the idea of DevRel is to support people, to help people, that's
what community does. They probably have more of a marketing edge to them, they
have these goals of getting out there and spreading the word. They probably sit
on top of community quite well. It's like they participate more in community or
they make use of the community, whereas community is more like setting up the
foundations of what the community is. You setting up processes, the tech that
you use. It would vary between teams that you're on but I guess, in Orbit,
DevRel doesn't really get so involved in that at the moment, but maybe in time
they would, or maybe if we had more resources, they would, but all the kind of
setting up of the processes and the trying to pull people in is more on the
shoulders of the community team.

I guess for my limited experience, I guess is there's definitely like
collaborations between dev and community, a lot of overlap. And to be honest, I
think it should be that way with all teams, not just DevRel, but I think
community should have this overlap with marketing, with DevRel, with growth.

I kind of like the idea of community reporting to the CEO, the core business
team, I guess, rather than like in a lot of circumstances, community still like
reports to marketing, which feels a bit off to me. But yeah, DevRel I think is,
you know, an interesting role to have when the tech world is so... It's not
always been welcoming. It's not always been easy to get in into tech and having
people that are focused on more education stuff, more helping people in, in
whatever way they're, they're able to, it kind of makes tech one more welcoming.
I think that's a good thing.

Moving away, I guess from a traditional tech team, I guess 10 or 20 years, would
look like, typically, 90% male or something like that. And I would hope the
efforts of DevRel is being able to pull in a variety of people, in a variety of
experiences and world views.

**David:** Is that because the processes have become more understood and more
developed over time?

**Rosie:** I think so, from what I felt like over the years, I feel like there's
generally been a movement to being more open, to being more collaborative, to
understanding diversity more and appreciating diversity and just the way the
world, especially, in the past five years, has gone, you can't get away with not
investing into education and you have to care about diversity and you have to
put in the effort. I think that's a big part of it. And companies who aren't
doing that, I think are, I wouldn't say not going to survive, but they're kind
of like behind, behind the times.

**David:** Yeah, that makes sense. So, for an engineer who starts a new project,
maybe a side project or potentially a startup, where would you start in terms of
building a community around that?

**Rosie:** Part of my role is to think about how to teach community. The
community world has suffered from a lack of investment and lack of attention. As
an example that I like to put out is, before the pandemic you'd have job roles
that were available for community people, were basically either Community
Manager or Head of Community. Those were the job titles people used. They didn't
bother thinking of anything else. And if you compare that to, let's say
designers, designers 15 years ago was, mostly, UI designer or you're a graphic
designer that was, you know, minimal options, right? But then as design got more
popular, people came up with all these different design roles. It's like, well,
it's not just design. You're not just designing pixels. You're designing
websites. So you're a Web Designer, you're a UX Designer, you're a UI Designer,
you are, various types of Designers that you can be, that you can specialize in.
You're a Design Architect and community hasn't had that.

But since the pandemic, people have started talking about that more and people
have started putting out different job roles. So it's not just Community Manager
now. It's like: Community Designer, Community Operations, Community Architects,
there's all these different job roles that people are coming up with. And that's
really important for the community industry to evolve. So, kind of going back to
the question, had you started a project or a community, but a big part of my job
is to think about this and to try to teach people this. So a lot of what I'm
doing is actually, taking terms that already exist in the tech world, sticking
"community" onto them, that have never existed before, but I feel like should
have existed.

So when it comes to starting community, I've come up with the term Community
Discovery that no one really used before, but I'm like, Nope, I'm doing it. And
Community Discovery is a research phase. It's like, what you do before you start
a community. Just like if you start a software project, you wouldn't just, go
and start a project. You would do your research first. When someone wants to
start a community, I will say, do your community discovery first. And really
what that involves is researching your market, understanding what's out there,
who you're trying to serve, understanding the goals that you want to achieve or
the vision that you might have once you get a good understanding of that, a good
feel and you spend time hanging out in places online or, you know, talking to
people, trying to get to know people.

Then you can decide whether you need a community. I think a lot of people jump
straight into community. They get all excited and they start something up and
then they just don't know what to do next. If you do Community Discovery and you
get to know people and you have conversations with people that kind of leads you
on to the kind of things that you should be doing to help people. So yeah, in
theory, if you want to start a community, spend time hanging out with people.
For me, it's like following people on Twitter, following people on their blogs,
what they write or YouTube videos, I guess as well. Starting to develop trust
with people. Because once you have some kind of trust, it makes that first step
easier. When you do go to launch something, when you start a community, you
don't want to be begging people to join. You want people to naturally gravitate
to what you're doing. And if you don't have trust with people, it's almost
impossible to do that.

**David:** Within the context of a code project then, would that be kind of the
organic activity around the occasional contribution and users of the software
and you see that growing organically and you start paying attention to what's
happening around that project. And once you get to a certain point, you can
decide to curate it into something more specific.

**Rosie:** It's doing all of those things, whether you're contributing to
something or building something, you got to kind of get yourself out there,
doing stuff, helping people, sharing what you're writing on, being helpful. And
then, as you're doing that, it's having that mindset of paying attention to what
people people need and want. If you're doing that as you're going along, if
you're looking for the opportunities, then you can find them. But if you're not
looking for them, you don't see them, right? Having that intention to spot where
people are stumbling upon or where you can help them. It really makes a
difference as you're trying to figure out what should your community be.

**David:** Who owns that community then? Because if you've got a software
project, then you could say the owner is the original creator of the project,
but rarely are project's just one person, one owner. How does that change? And
who's the real owner of The community?

**Rosie:** I think businesses need to learn this right, who owns community?
Especially when it comes to software and you know, open source stuff which, to
be honest, I really don't feel like I'm an expert in. But I do feel like
businesses can feel like they can come in, gather interests, get people rounded
up, get them on their community platform, get them on their email list and say,
look at our community. This is what we've built. This is ours. I wrote about
this recently actually, you just can't own community, right? Community is the
conversations that are happening and as soon as you disrespect those
conversations, people just get up and leave and then you are left with nothing,
right? So the sooner that people or businesses, especially, appreciate that, the
sooner we can build better communities because if businesses appreciate that,
then they'll start to respect the community members more, they'll start to
actually value them and give back to them or pay them or support them whatever
way they can.

And that to me is what good communities should be doing. But I think to date
from what I've seen, we don't give enough back to community members. We don't
value them enough. And the idea, for example, of paying people to contribute is
still, I don't feel, it's common enough and not everyone wants to be paid and
that's fine. But it's trying to find that balance of we're building something
here. What can we give back? Is that, we're thriving because you're helping us
build something, of course we should give something back. I think it's easier
said than done. It's not just the business side, I think still, a lot of people
don't appreciate community as much as they could as well. But I think if the rug
was pulled away from underneath them, they might start to evaluate more perhaps?
I don't know.

It's definitely a big topic and I'm not really into the Web 3.0 yet. I've been
involved in some discussions and stuff, but I think people in Web 3.0 get very
excited about the potential of community because they're coming up with more
ideas around reward systems and ownership. I'm still skeptical about it. I think
community ownership is actually a really hard thing to make happen. There are
businesses that are owned by employees and run by employees that exist in the
world. So it doesn't have to be Web 3.0 for a community to be owned but I think
what Web 3.0 are doing, or at least trying to do, or they're talking about it, I
would say, I'm yet to see proper examples in the world, but there's this desire
to reward their members more. And that's a key driver, an understandable desire,
because I think traditionally businesses just haven't given back enough. So Web
3.0 almost feels like a bit of a "rebel against what used to be."

**David:** So instead of companies just giving or just sending cash to people as
one option, the idea with Web 3.0 is the decentralized ownership of the project
and by doing some activity, you are being given something which at the moment
might be some kind of coin, some crypto coin, but that's just the first
iteration of the idea of Web 3.0. Is that how you're thinking about it?

**Rosie:** In theory, that's how it should work, but I think practice is very
different. And I think, as a community founder or someone who leads communities,
it's something to be careful about, but the good intentions are there, at least
in most place, there's the right intentions. But I think the actual day-to-day,
the practicalities of it will, I'm guessing, they won't pan out like how people
really want them to. Utopia is like "oh, wouldn't it be great if we all owned a
community or had some kind of ownership", but actually the reality of that and
the reality of allowing people to vote on everything is actually, as a community
founder, that fills me with dread. I thrive on making decisions and moving
forward, the idea of having to get permission from members to move forward, kind
of fills me with dread.

And also, I just have this belief that members don't always know what they want.
You know, it's like the mom test. They think they know what they want, but they
don't and they'll shout out some random stuff and say, "this would be great. I
want this." But actually the reality of what they want is not the actual thing.
I have a small story, like Ministry of Testing and I was trying to figure out
how it could make money, my main idea was to do events, to do conferences,
because I just didn't feel like there was enough, specifically in the UK, or
enough affordable ones. They were very expensive corporate events that were
happening. I asked a few people if they would attend and pay for conferences and
they all said no. I was like, "oh, okay". But I did it anyways because I felt it
was the right thing. And I felt like I was this person who had been leading that
community already at that stage for four years, I understood the market.

And what I realized later, in hindsight, is that they didn't have that same
insight as I did. I had that insight and I was the best person to make an
educated guess. They weren't. And as it turned out, we ended up thriving on
conferences and that's what made most of our money. But if I'd listened to the
community, perhaps I wouldn't have done it.

**David:** It reminds me a little bit of open source and the challenge of
funding sustainable open source development because most people are not paying
for it. And now we're starting to see that change a little bit with the big
companies, specifically funding security in open source, because we're all
relying on these open source libraries that very few people are maintaining,
which is potentially a problem for the infrastructure that we have. Do you see
the parallels there with the open source challenge?

**Rosie:** Definitely. I would say so. You know, this is why partly, I'm excited
that people are now appreciating community more, or at least, signs that
companies are supporting it. People in general seem more open to the idea of
supporting community. Also, how do you even define communities? People coming
together to do stuff, to work on a project, traditionally might not have been
seen as community, but now is. And even the company you work at, for example, is
a community within itself to a certain extent. I would say, the more I have this
huge desire or want to have more sustainable communities, independent and
sustainable. And it's great if big companies inject a lot of money into specific
projects, but I also think it needs to be more than that. It needs to be
contributions from individuals to make it more sustainable. Or maybe not
specifically individuals, but lots of smaller companies, for example, rather
than one big payout just to avoid if there was one main sponsor for a community,
if that sponsor pulled out, then it kind of really leaves the community exposed.

**David:** How would you go about measuring the health of a community?

**Rosie:** A healthy community is a sustainable one. You know, I guess as a
member, if you come along, you kind of want to believe that is going to be
around for a while, whether it's sustainable by free labor or money or
employees, it depends on the community. Another aspect, I guess, is that the
relationships or the conversations that are happening within the community. It's
not necessarily about the number of conversations these days, I'm trying to tell
people not to specifically focus on engagement for the sake of engagement. I
think there's a trend to get as many conversations happening or there's this
feeling of guilt if people aren't talking to each other every day.

And I think we should kind of reevaluate that in our communities, because I
think you can have a healthy community without engaging every day, basically. It
could be once a week, it could be once a month. But I think a healthy community
is, I guess working towards their vision and their goal when they're making
progress towards that. So it's not the number of conversations that are
happening. It's are they making progress in a positive manner?

**David:** What do you think are the essential tools for managing a community?
So the standard question from an engineer is Discord versus Slack, but there's
probably a broader answer.

**Rosie:** Yeah. Tools are like the first engineers or anyone jumps to, to be
honest it's like when they think of the community, it's that easy trap to fall
into. I would say use the tools that your community members use or that you see
a trend of people using previously, like Slack was the most common option, but
I'm definitely seeing a trend towards Discord, even though people still complain
about it. I think in reality, there's no reason why a Discord can't live along
the side of a traditional forum as well. Like more longer based conversations,
more searchable conversations. Discord's great for the audio features. It brings
out a different aspect to the community. So mixing and matching, I think is a
great thing. And, I guess like with Devs, I would edge towards Discord these
days. The more I use Discord, the more that I'm struggling to use Slack and
really thinking about non-community tools as well, that you wouldn't think are
community tools. Like at Orbit, we use Luma a lot for events, for event
registration.

People, traditionally, hooking to Zoom. We use Butter.us, more like a workshopy
tool, kind of brings a bit more fun into the events we host. So, to me, those
are community tools, right? It's anything that helps you connect with your
members, even newsletter tools, email tools, I've started calling them community
tools. They're a way to engage with your people and Marketing call them
marketing tools. I'm putting it up my fight like, they're just like any tool to
communicate with anyone. You know, it's just a tool. It's not just for
marketing. Anyone in the team can use it, right? So if you go to Mailtrap
website, they call themselves a email marketing platform. I'd love to see them
change it. Maybe I'll start a campaign to change it. Not much of a chance of
that happening.

But the point is that to build community, I would say, start small, start with a
newsletter, start with a blog. And if you think about what community is, it's
about having conversations, that's a foundation of community. So you can use
these tools to have good conversations. You can use email to have conversations,
right? You can ask people to respond to your email. You can encourage people to
do that. You can invite them to events on your email. You can ask them to have a
chat with you, send them a calendar link or similar, all those kinds of things,
those actions build community. For me, only once you reach a certain amount of
people and confidence in yourself, I guess, you could start thinking about maybe
setting up a Discord or a forum or something else.

**David:** Before we wrap up then, I have two lightning questions for you. First
is, what interesting tools are you playing around with at the moment? Could be
anything.

**Rosie:** So I'm not a Dev, so I use Notion a lot. I love Notion for various
reasons, almost like a community tool as well. So one thing we've been doing at
Orbit is "100 days of Community Challenge." And then we've been automating those
Tweets into a Notion and we've created a dashboard of Tweets and we've
categorized them and we're creating the directory as well of people who have
participated. I love Notion for that aspect. We also use it just internally for
the documentation. Luma, I'm liking a lot for event registration. I mentioned
earlier Butter.us, We've been using Butter.us for our events, it just makes it
more fun. And we use Mural a lot. These are collaboration tools essentially, but
we're using it to build community. And I think that's kind of to the magic of
it.

**David:** And the second question is, what is your current tech setup? What
hardware and software do you use?

**Rosie:** Oh, I've just got a MacBook Pro and Beats By Dre headphones and
AirPods. I don't use a lot to be honest.

**David:** Excellent. Well, thanks for joining the Console podcast. It was great
to chat. Where can people find you online?

**Rosie:** Yeah, mostly I'm on Twitter @RosieSherry. I also write about
community @rosie.land and I hangout @Orbit.love a lot.

**David:** Excellent. Thanks a lot.

**Rosie:** No problem. Thanks for having me.

**David:** Thanks for listening to the Console Dev tools podcast. Please let us
know what you think on Twitter. I'am @davidmytton and you can follow
@consoledotdev. Don't forget to subscribe and rate us in your podcast player.
And if you are playing around with or building any interesting dev tools, please
get in touch our email is in the show notes. See you next time.

{{</ box-collapsible >}}
