---
title: Engineering Leadership
who: Meri Williams
whoLink: https://twitter.com/geek_manager
what:
  We discuss the role of technology leadership, what engineering managers can do
  to help their teams, how to best go about recruiting engineers, and whether
  engineering performance can be measured.
season: 3
episode: 10
date: 2022-08-11T06:00:00Z
duration: 33:11
episodeURL: https://cdn.simplecast.com/audio/10488ddf-3ca4-4300-9391-c2967d806334/episodes/56d8611f-a46f-493a-940a-26c0b5965905/audio/c5bc187d-9c59-4478-b6cf-5a9b06dd11b9/default_tc.mp3
draft: true
summary:
  Engineering Leadership - a devtools discussion with Meri Williams. Episode 10
  (Season 3) of the Console DevTools Podcast.
metaDescription:
  Engineering Leadership - a devtools discussion with Meri Williams. Episode 10
  (Season 3) of the Console DevTools Podcast.
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
isSubpage: podcast-episode
pageType: podcast-episode
customPageStyle: true
xlViewport:
  largeText: true
topImg1Src: /img/podcast/meri-williams-profile.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/blank-image.svg
ogImg: /img/podcast/podcast-cover.jpeg
twitterCard: https://player.simplecast.com/56d8611f-a46f-493a-940a-26c0b5965905
authorName: David Mytton
authorURL: https://davidmytton.blog/start
authorImg: /img/david.jpg
authorBio:
  is Co-founder & CEO of Console. In 2009, he founded and was CEO of Server
  Density, a SaaS cloud monitoring startup acquired in 2018 by edge compute and
  cyber security company, StackPath. He is also researching sustainable
  computing in the Department of Engineering Science at the University of
  Oxford, and has been a developer for 15+ years.
---

### Episode notes

{{< div-custom class="aside" data="data-inline-aside-content-wrapper" >}}
{{< div--close >}}

In this episode we speak to Meri Williams an experienced CTO at scaleups like
[Moo](https://www.moo.com/), [Monzo](https://monzo.com/), and
[Healx](https://healx.io/). We discuss the role of technology leadership, what
engineering managers can do to help their teams, how to best go about recruiting
engineers, and whether engineering performance can be measured.

Things mentioned:

- [Moo](https://www.moo.com/)
- [Monzo](https://monzo.com/)
- [Healx](https://healx.io/)
- [Kindred](https://kindredcapital.vc/)
- [Drive](https://www.danpink.com/books/drive/)
- [Cate Huston](https://cate.blog/)
- [DORA metrics](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/devops-sre/using-the-four-keys-to-measure-your-devops-performance)
- [reMarkable](https://remarkable.com/)
- [MacBook Air](https://www.apple.com/macbook-air/)
- [iPad Pro](https://www.apple.com/ipad-pro/)

{{< rich-title-5 icon="future-head" >}}About Meri Williams{{</ rich-title-5 >}}

Meri Williams is an experienced CTO from scaleups like Moo, Monzo, and Healx. An
experienced CTO who has led and scaled technology organizations across a range
of sectors including medtech, neo-banking, government, ecommerce, telco and
manufacturing.

A published author, international speaker and chair (co-curator & host) of The
Lead Developer conference series which has expanded from starting in London in
2015 to now running in London, New York, Berlin and Austin, Williams regularly
trains the Be a Brilliant People Developer workshop to level up technologists
into excellent managers & coaches.

### Highlights

{{< podcast-episode/clipping time="03:20" >}}

**Meri Williams:** I think that there's a tendency, particularly when you first
become a manager, if you are the flavor of technical leader that is a manager,
actually, even if you're a very senior individual contributor, hiding in the
code is a problem that I see quite often, it can be very comfortable. It's where
people feel that most at home, the feedback loop is so addictively short, you
write some code, you find out if it passes the tests almost instantly, if you're
in a good dev setup. And I think that people can hide in what's comfortable. And
really the more senior you get, the more likely it is that your real problems
are people problems or your real problems are influencing or getting people to
align to a strategy. And so I think hiding in the code is one real problem or
mistake that I see people make.

{{</ podcast-episode/clipping >}}

{{< podcast-episode/clipping time="23:33" >}}

**Meri Williams:** I think that there are a lot of companies where their problem
is at the top of the funnel, if you will, they're just not attracting people to
be interested. And that tends to be best addressed by employer branding work.
Being known as a place where good work is going to happen and people are going
to develop well. And it's actually something where I think startups often have a
real advantage over established businesses because they can be really clear on
what the purpose of the organization is. They can give a lot more autonomy.

{{</ podcast-episode/clipping >}}

{{< box-collapsible title="Full transcript" class="podcast-transcript is-expanded" >}}

**David Mytton** (00:05): Welcome to the Console podcast. I'm David Mytton,
co-founder of console.dev, a free weekly newsletter highlighting the best and
most interesting tools for developers. In this episode, I speak with Meri
Williams, experienced CTO at scale-ups like MOO, Monzo and Healx. We discuss the
role of technology leadership, what engineering managers can do to help their
teams, how to best go about recruiting engineers and whether engineering
performance can be measured. We're keeping this to 30 minutes. So let's get
started. I'm here with Meri Williams. Meri, thanks for joining the Console
podcast.

**Meri Williams** (00:42): Thanks very much for having me.

**David Mytton** (00:44): Let's start with a brief background. Tell us a little
bit about what you are currently doing and how you got here.

**Meri Williams** (00:50): I'm an experienced CTO. At the moment I'm doing a bit
of consulting for a few different firms through my own company but I've
previously been CTO at MOO, at Monzo, at Healx, which is an AI driven drug
discovery company. In addition to that, I chair the Lead Dev Conference and I'm
also a tech advisor for Kindred of VC in London, that practices equitable
ventures.

**David Mytton** (01:11): Great. So let's start with a very broad question. What
is the role of technology leadership?

**Meri Williams** (01:18): I think the role of technology leadership is two
primary things. One is leading the technical organization, so looking after
people from a pastoral and career and personal development point of view, but
the other is to ensure that there's a clear technical strategy and that the
needs of the business are met by the technology team.

**David Mytton** (01:38): And how do you think about balancing those because
they're almost opposites, people and technology?

**Meri Williams** (01:46): I think balance is the key word there. The reality is
that if you don't know enough about the technology, then it's very difficult to
guide your team and your people effectively. But also if you focus too much on
the tech and ignore the people, then they don't tend to stay. They don't tend to
be happy. They don't tend to be fulfilled. And therefore you end up without
anybody to build anything, which is not in great service of the tech either.

**David Mytton** (02:09): I suppose that goes to the saying that people leave
bad managers rather than bad companies. Would you say that's right?

**Meri Williams** (02:16): I think a lot of people do leave bad managers. I
think there's other reasons for leaving as well. I talk a lot about the Dan
Pink's Drive book, where he talks about needing to have purpose, autonomy and
mastery. There's a fourth thing there that if you look at something like first
break all the rules or similar, you also need inclusion, you need to feel like
you're part of a community. You need to feel like you belong, you can be
yourself and be successful.

And so I think any lack in any of those areas can cause someone to leave as
well. So if they feel like they don't have a real connection with the purpose of
the organization, they feel like their opinion isn't listened to. They don't
have any autonomy in their day to day work. If they're not building mastery.
They're not getting better at what it is they do. So I talk about that as,
autonomy is build the right thing and mastery is build the thing right. And then
inclusion, can you be yourself and be successful? So I think any of those
factors being really out of whack can lead someone to leave as well. But a bad
boss can definitely also lead people to go.

**David Mytton** (03:13): Are there any mistakes or common errors that you see
technical leaders make that they should watch out for?

**Meri Williams** (03:20): I think that there's a tendency, particularly when
you first become a manager, if you are the flavor of technical leader that is a
manager, actually, even if you're a very senior individual contributor, hiding
in the code is a problem that I see quite often, it can be very comfortable.
It's where people feel that most at home, the feedback loop is so addictively
short, you write some code, you find out if it passes the tests almost
instantly, if you're in a good dev setup. And I think that people can hide in
what's comfortable. And really the more senior you get, the more likely it is
that your real problems are people problems or your real problems are
influencing or getting people to align to a strategy. And so I think hiding in
the code is one real problem or mistake that I see people make.

The other is assuming that there's only two modes of management, either
micromanagement or completely hands off. And I think in reality, not many people
need telling exactly what to do and exactly how to do it all the time. It's
very... Unless someone's very, very, very new, it's unlikely that they need
teaching in that way. And maybe the best person to teach them anyway is someone
six to 18 months ahead of them rather than their line manager, in any case. Even
if somebody has... They know what to do and they're well equipped to do it, they
still need a bulldozer and a cheerleader.

They need someone to get things out of their way and to help them know that
they're doing well in many ways. But that's the biggest stake I see, I suppose,
is people defaulting to either being in micromanagement mode or in absent mode,
when in actual fact, people need either help developing new skills or help
figuring out what the right route is. So coaching is often the best way to
achieve that in almost all cases. And it's very seldom that somebody needs
telling exactly what to do or how to do it and, or needs to just have no manager
at all.

**David Mytton** (05:07): Right. So what does that actually mean in terms of,
what should a manager be doing? How do they know how to start with coaching or
what should they do with their team to try and help them with that?

**Meri Williams** (05:18): A key tool that I teach new managers is this grid of
just trying to figure out where somebody is in terms of clue versus skills and
knowledge. So do they know what they're trying to achieve and do they have
everything they need to try and achieve it? And if they have both of those
things, then what I said earlier about a bulldozer and a cheerleader come into
being. If they have neither of these things, they don't know what they're trying
to do and they have none of the skills or knowledge to achieve it, then they
need a teacher, but who's the best teacher for them? Is probably the right
question to ask.

If you think of that as a grid, there's also people who know what they're trying
to achieve but they lack some of the knowledge or skills. So they focus on
skills development or where they have the skills they have the knowledge, you're
like, "The best thing here would be for you to figure out what route you want to
take with it." That's when coaching is appropriate. And I think there's some
basic coaching skills that it would benefit literally everybody, not just
managers to learn. So I've done a couple of talks on coaching and what we can
steal from sports in terms of coaching, in the past and just getting more and
more people to have basic coaching skills is probably one of the more useful
contributions I've made to the industry over the years.

**David Mytton** (06:23): Excellent. So does that mean finding a course or
finding someone like you, who can help with these workshops?

**Meri Williams** (06:30): Not to show my own thing, but I do run something
called Be a Brilliant People Developer, which is a day-long workshop to really
bootstrap somebody who's new to technical leadership. But I think you can also
learn from books really effectively. There's a great book called The Tower of
Coaching. There's The Inner Game of Tennis. If you'd like the sports angle on
things, it is a very good read. There's also talks online about things like GROW
coaching, which is a very simple coaching model where you literally just do a
structured conversation, where the GROW stands for goal, reality, options and
will. And so somebody starts out saying, what is it they want to talk about?
What's the goal of the coaching session? You then ask them, "What's going on?
What's the reality?"

That's the only phase in which the person who is being the coach can add any
information as well. Because one of the key tenets of coaching is that you keep
yourself out of it. You're just a mirror or a rubber duck in the coding framing
for somebody else's thought process. So having said what the topic is and
explained what the situation is, as a coach, you literally just keep asking,
"What could you do? What options do you have? What else might you consider?" And
really try to get that person to get a volume of options out. So it's about
quantity, more than anything. It's not about analyzing each individual option to
death.

It's about trying to get 10, 12, 20 options out. And then the final stage, will,
is just to decide what they're actually going to do. And a key difference
between coaching and mentoring, I suppose, is coaching, you don't have to have
expertise. You can coach somebody really effectively, even if you're not more
knowledgeable or better at the thing that they're trying to do than they are,
which is another thing that I think technical managers and leaders need to learn
over time is they can't always just operate in a space where they could also do
the individual contributor work. Eventually you're going to have people who you
are leading, who are significantly more expert at you at their own specialism or
maybe more senior than you or were ever as an engineer. And so getting to the
point of having that skillset where you can coach rather than always just giving
advice, is really important.

**David Mytton** (08:34): That sounds somewhat counterintuitive, I suppose, that
you are able to coach someone, even though you don't have that experience. So
it's almost like as we're just speaking broadly, there's almost a reluctance to
embrace coaching in technology, even though we're very used to it in other high
performance teams, like all the sports teams you mentioned, do you think that's
a major problem that the tech industry has?

**Meri Williams** (08:55): I think we're very proud of our technical skills and
I think that's understandable. We work hard to develop them and letting go of
that, facets of our identity can be very difficult but I think once we embrace
it, we can be just so much more effective that... And let's be honest when we
were engineers ourselves and we were hands on keyboard doing stuff. We usually
liked our own plans better than other people's plans anyway. And so I think if
we recognize that helping someone figure out their own way to achieve something
is probably what we would've liked when we were in their position as well. A lot
of managers fail at that very basic first test of thinking about what bad
experiences they've had themselves or what good experiences they ever had
themselves as a person being managed or being led and then try to replicate it,
which I think is minimum viable success for a leadership role is, learn from
what happened to you in the past.

And I think too often we throw all of that out the window, as soon as we take on
the mantle of leadership and forget that we know a lot about what doesn't work,
even if we haven't always had the best examples. Everybody I know has had some
examples of what is not worth emulating. That's the minimum viable guidance for
anybody, I think. I think we're also just, we're not very cognizant of the fact
that some of the best coaches in the world are not better at the thing than the
person they're coaching. Andy Murray's tennis coach, I don't think he's better
at the sport than he is. And the England rugby team's history is littered with
examples of great players who did not become great coaches. There's the
occasional great player who also became a great coach, but it's almost like
they're slightly different skills and being great at doing the thing doesn't
make you great at teaching things.

So I think when we recognize how valuable those coaches are in some of those
other industries, I think tech is getting a bit better at it. We've seen a rise
in coaching from managers but also in executive coaches and similar being used
and making a real, real difference to organizations. So I think we're starting
to grow up a little around it, but yeah, traditionally we've been very in love
with our own expertise and very unwilling to believe that someone who's less
expert can still be helpful. I think we're starting to see that the reality is
being good at coaching can be an expertise all in itself, that then adds a huge
amount of value and same for mentoring, same for teaching.

**David Mytton** (11:14): Going back to those two components, you mentioned that
are possibly opposites but not necessarily, the people and the technology side
of things. You often see startups having just a single person who does both of
those and then it changes over time as the company grows. Do you think that
engineering leaders need to pick between people and technology?

**Meri Williams** (11:36): I think there's certainly a point in your career
where you have to choose whether you want to still be hands-on in the tech. But
I was at a conference recently called Leading End where a CTO who's got
thousands of engineers under them at this point said, "One of the secrets of
technology management is the more senior you get, the more the tech matters
again." And I think that's very true. I think as you get more senior, technology
strategy becomes such a key part of your role, but if the only way that you can
stay up to date or keep current with tech is by coding yourself, I think that's
limiting in some ways. So the most successful technical leaders I've seen for a
while really focus on the people management side because that is a skillset that
we don't develop as engineers.

It's not something that you learn a little bit more of along the way from entry
level to mid-level to senior engineer. We get to senior engineer and then
suddenly someone expects us to manage, and it's more like a career change than
it is a progression. And so I think at engineering manager level, that first
line manager level focusing really on developing those skills of people
management, pastoral care, looking after people from a career point of view,
from a personal development point of view, I think there's a really good
argument for heavily, heavily focusing on that whilst in an EM or SDM type role.
But then once you get to engineering director or VP Eng or CTO, there's a whole
bunch of technical strategy that you need to engage in again.

And so one of the quite interesting topics, I think for technical leaders,
particularly those who've been in leadership roles for a long time, is how do
they keep current enough with the technology that they can ask good questions,
that they can evaluate people's proposals, that they can understand the reality
of what's being proposed when you're talking about an architectural change or a
change in ways of working? If they are not able to regularly be down in the
trenches, actually using the tools day today, it's quite an interesting
challenge and learning how to learn well and learning how to learn in different
ways, it ends up being a key part of every leader's journey, whether they think
about it very actively or not.

**David Mytton** (13:39): How have you solved that, your different roles keeping
up to date with things?

**Meri Williams** (13:44): I'm always willing to admit when I don't know, I
worked really closely with my senior ICs when I was at Monzo. I was lucky enough
to have an absolutely amazing VP of architecture, Ollie Beattie. He'd never
judged if I asked a dumb question or I think you probably valued that I would
admit, I didn't know, rather than pretend it or style it out as some people do.
And so I just work really closely with senior ICs in my organization, ask what
might seem like dumb questions sometimes just to make sure that I really
understand, and I'm autistic so I tend to ask very direct questions and not be
scared of asking questions anyway, which is probably one of the few benefits of
that neuro diversity. But more generally, I follow a lot of people on Twitter
who are still much more hands on technical and tend to pay attention to what
they're interested in.

What are the big debates that are happening? What new frameworks are becoming
popular? What tooling are people excited about? And so I tend to follow on
Twitter, go to conferences, see what's being talked about. And then I'll take
that as a list of things to investigate in more detail in my own time. And I'm
lucky in that, just the learning style I have, I'm very capable and quite happy,
just swallowing a book. And so a lot of the time I will just buy a technical
book and read it. And I'm lucky in that I can absorb a lot of the context and
understanding from reading rather than having to build it myself in order to
understand it, which I think is a, just happens to be a benefit that I have
because that meshes my learning style. I don't think it's worse except that it's
a bit more time consuming if you need to build in order to learn.

The one thing I'd love to see more of though, is for people who, for all
technical leaders actually, to make it obvious that they are using time during
work for learning. Because I think that's a important and positive way of role
modeling because expecting everybody to have coding as their hobby, as their
free time activity, as well as their work activity, just isn't very inclusive,
like if you've got kids to look after or parents that you help support or even
just hobbies that are not very tech-centric, it can be difficult to feel all the
time like you're meant to be living and breathing tech at all times in order to
keep current with what's changing all the time.

**David Mytton** (15:53): I suppose that's almost a stereotype, isn't it? The
engineer who spends all of their waking hours coding, and maybe that changes
over time as well. You might be able to do that when you are younger and have no
responsibilities, but it does change as things change in your life and being
able to show that to your team and the company to set that as a norm is really
important.

**Meri Williams** (16:11): Yeah. And I think there's people from certain
demographics that even when they're really young, they don't have that
privilege. They don't have the opportunity to just spend all of their time. The
reality of the world is that there's still a disparity in who does certain
activities and tasks and how much caring is expected of different people. So I
think it's healthy even at every stage in the career to make room for learning
on the job as well. Because if people aren't learning, then things are
eventually going to suffer in the job anyway. So it's worth building it in from
the outset.

**David Mytton** (16:41): Yep. So if you were starting from scratch with a brand
new startup, where would you begin in hiring and how would you design the
development processes?

**Meri Williams** (16:52): I'm often hired at the point where things are about
to scale massively and then you come in and all the things that were fine when
it's a small closely knit team are about to get very, very painful. If there are
things that are just arcane knowledge or things that just live in people's
heads. So I would probably get quite focused on good tooling, good onboarding,
good documentation, quite fairly on, but that's very colored by my experience
being the one to come in at the point where it's not been paid attention to. And
then suddenly you're going to double the team in the next six months and when
half your team are less than six months in tenure, then the things that are only
known by the original crowd, the OGs is, it becomes more and more problematic.
So I think I, compared to the average startup, would probably hire someone who
thinks about platform infrastructure and tooling a bit earlier than most other
organizations might.

And ironically, I'd probably also lobby for there to be a people person, like an
HR style person a bit earlier as well. Because I think designing people
processes, like making the people experience better, is really important from
early on. It's something that I thought Monzo did a fantastic job of, not under
my watch. It was already really, really brilliant by the time I joined there,
they really focused on the employee experience being really good. They had a
team that not only did tech support but very proactively made the experience of
using the technology really, really positive. And people would remark on that.

They joined from much bigger, much better funded organizations and just be like,
"Everything just works. It's just wonderful how everything just, it just works."
And the level of surprise from people coming from these huge enormously well
funded banks, just being so surprised at how frictionless things were, was
really interesting and important. But I also think the reality of a very early
stage startup is, sometimes you have to just use every available penny on the
product that you're building to try to figure out whether you've got product
market fit. And I think that's fair. So possibly my answers were better answers
for once you found your product market fit, what would you then hire? That's
probably the way I would frame it.

**David Mytton** (19:03): Right because the priority early on is finding out if
you're going to be able to get users and maybe would they pay for something? Not
necessarily, maybe would they pay for something? And then you can figure out,
well okay, now we've got this massive mess and we've figured it out on the
company business side of things, how do we fix all the technology and scale
that?

**Meri Williams** (19:19): Yeah, it's better to have a viable business that has
a bit of technical debt than it is to have a perfect technical system that
nobody's ever going to use. Technical debt gets talked about as if it's a
university bad thing and I don't think it is. I think it's like financial debt,
financial debt is just fine. Just don't put your house on the credit card. Let's
make sure that we're paying the appropriate interest rate. So you don't want to
borrow financially in an irresponsible way. Tech debt can be a way of going
faster, doing things manually at first can actually be very healthy. I've seen
Amy Hoy, I think calls it Flintstoning. Do it the stone age way at first. And
don't try and automate until you've got the process ironed out manually. And I
think those are actually quite good lessons for early stage startups to have.
What becomes problematic is when they cling on to those ways of doing it beyond
the size at which it's sensible. I think that's the bigger challenge.

**David Mytton** (20:13): What were the specific things that you saw at Monzo or
other companies that they really got right, that made that well, you described
it as frictionless, was it things like onboarding or like the build system works
really well? What examples could you give me?

**Meri Williams** (20:27): Tech ops, the tech ops team did a really brilliant
job of making it so your machine arrived with you and it already had all the
software that you needed. It already had your account set up. It was literally
open go, which was just beautifully frictionless. They did an absolutely
fantastic job of that work. I think they've bogged a bit about some of the
things that they did and they're very worth reading those blog posts. But the
people experience team had focused very heavily on onboarding very early on. And
it was a company, whilst the years that I was at Monzo, it was a company that
was very, very rapidly growing and so making it so people's... I called it mean
time to productivity, how quickly can somebody join and be independently
productive? I think it is very important. We've heard versions of that from
other companies too.

I know Etsy is very proud of any engineer who joins, they ship something into
production on day one or day two in the company and I think that's very
important. There was also at Monzo an engineering excellence team that focused
specifically, like a dev tooling team essentially, on making things as easy and
as seamless and as low risk as possible for new people joining and for existing
people just to make the working on code and then deploying it as frictionless as
possible. So I think those were all very good investments that were made at
Monzo early on.

**David Mytton** (21:45): Right. So at the point when you join the company and
it's starting to scale pretty rapidly, what kind of changes do you see or do you
try and implement or work to get deployed?

**Meri Williams** (22:00): There's a bunch of things that I think get harder,
the bigger you get. I think the internal communication matters a lot more, as
soon as you're above more than about 20 few people, even 50 people, you've
already got to focus a lot more on internal comms than you expect to. I'm from a
Python background, so I love the DRY principle, the don't repeat yourself
principle, and it's fantastic from a coding perspective but terrible from a
human perspective. So accepting that with humans, you're going to have to repeat
yourself probably more than you want to in order for the message to really sink
in is quite important. And I think there's generally just different inflection
points. There's different things that matter at different points. So once you've
got 50 engineers, somebody definitely is asking quite consistently for a career
progression framework.

They want to know how they get better. They want to know what matters. So I
think that's worth investing in at that point. But generally I've never
regretted investing in better onboarding, onboarding and documentation, anything
that makes it more likely that somebody new can find their own way rather than
having to find the person who knows, having to navigate that kind of arcane
hidden organizational knowledge, anything that makes that easier, tends to be
worth investing in at almost any stage but definitely at the point where you're
going to very rapidly have a significant portion of the team be only three
months or six months or nine months in, at the company.

**David Mytton** (23:20): And in terms of recruitment itself, that's often the
hardest problem that I see in early stage businesses or even any stage business,
how to hire good engineers. How do you think about that problem?

**Meri Williams** (23:33): I think there's a mix of places where your problem
might be. I think that there's a lot of companies where their problem is at the
top of the funnel, if you will, they're just not attracting people to be
interested. And that tends to be best addressed by doing something what... If
you're being ponzi about it, you'd call employer branding work. But it's just
being known as a place where good work is going to happen and people are going
to develop well. And it's actually something where I think startups often have a
real advantage over established businesses because they can be really clear on
what the purpose of the organization is. They can give a lot more autonomy. You
almost have to actively try not to be on a really steep learning curve if you're
in a startup environment.

And they have a lot of opportunity to work on inclusion to that sense of
community, making people feel welcome and like they can be themselves. And so I
think it's a real advantage that small organizations have sometimes. Your
attraction, your top of funnel, enough people are coming in wanting to be
interested in you. It's then about making sure that your actual funnel, your
process of whether it's reviewing CVs, then a phone screen of some description,
then a technical task some description. Then some interviews, making sure that,
that is even handed, that you're not being accidentally biased in that process
and losing good people along the way. I think that the biggest improvement I've
made to recruitment processes in places I've gone in is to get them to be much
more realistic, much more akin to what their actual day to day work will be.

So if you're doing design from scratch exercises in your interviews, but
actually most of the time people are going to be adding to existing systems or
improving existing systems, then that's not very realistic. It's not telling you
whether they're going to do well in the actual job. And so a lot of the time
I'll, whenever I go in, I'll ask everybody to map out for me what the process is
and then go, "Cool and which part of the real job is this testing for?" And the
number of times that there's three or four phases where nobody knows which part
of the real job it's testing for is quite worrying. So I'm a big fan of, I think
you've got to walk the line carefully that you don't seem to be asking for free
work from people when they're doing their technical task or whatever else, but
being more real in how it's assessed.

So if your company pairs a lot, make it a pairing interview, don't make it a
whiteboard coding exercise. I don't think anybody ever writes code on the
whiteboard in their actual day to day job or anybody who does, should write to
me and explain to me when and how because I just have never seen it in the day
to day. I think it's wonderful to whiteboard together when you are figuring out
a design or talking about architectural choices or similar, but the chances that
you're actually writing code on a whiteboard, I think are very slim.

And so try to make that process a lot more similar to what the actual day to day
work looks like and that tends to improve things. It's a mix of that, making
sure you're seen as somewhere where people can join and learn and grow and
deliver good work that they care about. But then also make sure that your
process is actually checking what they will do rather than any kind of abstract
idea of what good looks like. Because almost always under scrutiny, those very
abstract things don't stand out. Even Google these days has given up on their.
How would you move Mount Fuji? Style questions that they used to ask that they
thought were very predictive of success that turned out not to predict whether
people would succeed at all.

**David Mytton** (27:01): What about trying to measure the performance of
engineers once they're in the job, how'd you go about doing that?

**Meri Williams** (27:06): I think almost all modern work is a team sport. I'm a
bigger fan actually of measuring team performance and then measuring individuals
based on the feedback of their team. If you measure with the team is performing
and then you get 360 feedback from around the individual so that they know what
they're good at, what they need to continue to get even better at and then what
gaps are causing a problem. I think there's a tendency sometimes to just look at
gaps, but gaps only matter if they're what I would call a controlling weakness,
so a weakness that is essential for the job. If you have a gap that isn't
essential for the job that you've got or the job that you want next, then it's
your choice whether you do anything about it, you can just leave it.

Not everybody has to get perfect at public speaking in the course of their
career. I think you can be a very, very successful leader and all the way up to
CTO without ever embracing public speaking is a need. There are some CTO roles
where it's pretty essential but I don't think it's every role. And I think
sometimes people focus too much on the things that they're not good at, at all
or they're actively bad at that don't matter, over focusing in and going "Well,
actually, if I focus on going from good to great at this thing I'm already good
at, I'd be much more effective."

**David Mytton** (28:17): Right. And I suppose that's why it's focused on the
team because someone else in the team might be better than you at something and
that's perfectly fine because you're working as a group.

**Meri Williams** (28:26): Yeah. It's like the Avengers. You want all those
different skill sets that come together. I would watch the hell out of a seven
Hulks movie. I think it would be absolutely hilarious if we got one like
Spider-Man the Multiverse, into the Multiverse where you had all the different
Spider-Men. But I think in general you want the team to have a set of strengths
and it doesn't matter much which individuals those come from as long as the team
is cohesive and works well as a unit and delivers well. And in terms of
measuring team performance, I think we know from the work that Dr Nicole
Forsgren and similar have done, the only things that really matter are those
DORA metrics. That's probably the most useful measurement of team performance in
technology that I've seen is people trying to do really good implementations of
the DORA metrics.

**David Mytton** (29:14): Okay. Well, before we wrap up, then I have two
lightning questions for you. So the first one is, what interesting dev tools or
tools generally or maybe books, if you've not been playing around with anything
recently, what have you been playing with or reading that's worth mentioning?

**Meri Williams** (29:30): It's not very technical but I've been reading a lot
about burnout. I think in the last couple years we've had with the pandemic,
there's been a lot of burnout. Kate Houston writes very interestingly about
this. She writes about the reasons for burnout that are not related to overwork,
which I think a lot of people assume that burnout's always about working too
much, but there are six causes of burnout, work overload is just one of them and
lack of control, lack of reward, absence of fairness, lack of community or
conflict in values are the other five. My reading pile is a whole bunch of
things about burnout and resilience and how to help people recover from burnout
or even prevent it in the first place. Because I think it's one of the more
challenging things that we're dealing with. And I think when people are lucky,
they've got the opportunity to take a big chunk of time off and try and recover
but not everybody's got that opportunity.

So I'm keen to understand that whole process better and try and figure out how
to help people more when that burnout sense. I'm also just not very well
equipped at the moment, technically. I'm traveling at the moment, my laptop died
and I'm traveling with just an iPad Pro and finding all of the ways in which it
is not really a Mac replacement right now. Although the one thing I do love that
I have that is, I suppose, technical is I have one of the reMarkable 2 tablets
and it is the first time I have ever managed to actually move away from my paper
notebook, I have tried so frequently in the past. I've tried every type of
Evernote, Scribner, everything I could try to move my notes out of paper and
never got it to work but this tablet is genuinely remarkable. They've named it
very well. I've been very impressed with it.

**David Mytton** (31:09): Interesting. And does that sync with your Mac when you
have it?

**Meri Williams** (31:12): Yes. Yeah. It also tries to do OCR but my handwriting
is particularly terrible. People assume I should have been a doctor level of
terrible. I grew up in South Africa and when you're a smart kid in South Africa,
you're not ask what you want to be when you grow up, you ask which you want to
be when you grow up? And the choices are doctor or lawyer and the terribleness
of your handwriting tends to determine which people think you should go into. I
was definitely in the doctor category from that perspective.

**David Mytton** (31:39): So then that was my second question about your current
tech setup is so you normally on a MacBook.

**Meri Williams** (31:45): I'm normally on a Mac Air, at the moment I'm
traveling as I said, with an iPad Pro, reMarkable 2. I've got a lovely little
fold out split keyboard because I've had a lot of trouble in the past with RSI
and similar. So having a little ergonomic keyboard setups is really good. It's
beautiful, it's less than a centimeter thick when folded and really nice to
carry around. I use a trackball. Just a very typical one to work whenever I'm
around. And one of those little folding laptop stands. But yeah, ironically,
just as the pandemic started, I had really invested a whole bunch at having a
much better travel setup because I was starting to work with multiple companies.
Then the pandemic happened. My wife took all of my travel stuff and it became
her homework set up.

**David Mytton** (32:32): Excellent. Well, unfortunately that's all we've got
time for. Thanks for joining us, Meri.

**Meri Williams** (32:37): Well, thanks for having me.

**David Mytton** (32:39): Thanks for listening to the Console Dev Tools podcast.
Please let us know what you think on Twitter. I'm @davidmytton and you can
follow @consoledotdev. Don't forget to subscribe and rate us in your podcast
player. And if you are playing around with or building any interesting dev
tools, please get in touch. Our emails in the show notes. See you next time.

{{</ box-collapsible >}}
