---
title: OSS & Investing
who: Joseph Jacks
whoLink: https://twitter.com/josephjacks_
org: OSS Capital
orgLink: https://oss.capital/
what:
  We discuss why open source is such an important differentiator for all
  software development; the philosophy behind open source, open core, and
  building a community around open-source software; whether open source should
  be the default for all software; and what he looks for in investments.
season: 3
episode: 3
date: 2022-06-23T06:00:00Z
duration: 30:10
episodeURL: https://cdn.simplecast.com/audio/10488ddf-3ca4-4300-9391-c2967d806334/episodes/7c610a77-33a4-4c99-8032-4395237cb5cd/audio/1617bfd4-a52e-43cb-969c-2445087346f4/default_tc.mp3
draft: true
summary:
  OSS & Investing - a devtools discussion with Joseph Jacks (OSS Capital).
  Episode 3 (Season 3) of the Console DevTools Podcast.
metaDescription:
  OSS & Investing - a devtools discussion with Joseph Jacks (OSS Capital).
  Episode 3 (Season 3) of the Console DevTools Podcast.
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
isSubpage: podcast-episode
pageType: podcast-episode
customPageStyle: true
xlViewport:
  largeText: true
topImg1Src: /img/podcast/oss-capital-joseph-jacks-profile.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/oss.capital.png
ogImg: /img/podcast/podcast-cover.jpeg
twitterCard: https://player.simplecast.com/7c610a77-33a4-4c99-8032-4395237cb5cd
authorName: David Mytton
authorURL: https://davidmytton.blog/start
authorImg: /img/david.jpg
authorBio:
  is Co-founder & CEO of Console. In 2009, he founded and was CEO of Server
  Density, a SaaS cloud monitoring startup acquired in 2018 by edge compute and
  cyber security company, StackPath. He is also researching sustainable
  computing in the Department of Engineering Science at the University of
  Oxford, and has been a developer for 15+ years.
---

### Episode notes

{{< div-custom class="aside" data="data-inline-aside-content-wrapper" >}}
{{< div--close >}}

In this episode we speak to Joseph Jacks, founder and general partner at
[OSS Capital](https://oss.capital/), a venture fund specializing in open source
software. We discuss why open source is such an important differentiator for all
software development, the philosophy behind open source, open core, and building
a community around open source software, whether open source should be the
default for all software.

Things mentioned:

- [OSS capital](https://oss.capital/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/)
- [SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/)
- [Signal](https://signal.org/en/)
- [Richard Stallman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Stallman)
- [Satoshi Nakamoto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satoshi_Nakamoto)
- [Linus Torvalds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/)
- [GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/)
- [Red Hat](https://www.redhat.com/)
- [Rode](https://rode.com/)
- [Sony A600](https://electronics.sony.com/imaging/interchangeable-lens-cameras/aps-c/p/ilce6000l-b)

{{< rich-title-5 icon="future-head" >}}About Joseph Jacks{{</ rich-title-5 >}}

Joseph Jacks is founder and general partner at OSS Capital, a fund that invests
in Open Source projects. Previously, he was co-founder and VP of Technology
Strategy of Kismatic which provided services for running Kubernetes at scale for
enterprises. It was one of the top 0.01% of projects on GitHub and was acquired
by Apprenda in May 2016.

Jacks also founded the KubeAcademy, the parent organization of the official
Kubernetes community conference KubeCon, and was the co-Founder and CEO of
Aljabr which builds cloud-native data pipelines.

### Highlights

{{< podcast-episode/clipping time="01:22" >}}

**Joseph Jacks:** Commercial open-source software is no different from any other
type of open-source software. Fundamentally, open source can be commercialized
by anyone, something like Linux. You could say, because Linux is the basis for
this big commercial business called Red Hat, Linux is a commercial software.
That's not really technically accurate. It's an open source GPL-licensed piece
of technology, so it is both non-commercial and commercial at the same time.
It's kind of interesting paradox that open-source technologies have, sort of
like quantum computing or something like that. But essentially, what we focus on
boils down to project like open-source projects and technologies that we think
could be the basis for a commercial product and a commercial business that has a
high level of commercial potential, basically.

{{</ podcast-episode/clipping >}}

{{< podcast-episode/clipping time="02:28" >}}

**Joseph Jacks:** I think the consumer internet or people would say Web 1.0 or
Web 2.0 wouldn't exist without open source coming before it, a lot of the big
internet companies wouldn't exist without open source. Many of the biggest SaaS
companies, I think pretty much every digital technology product, depends on the
existence of open source, and so it's pretty profound. I'd say if you're in the
technology industry or in the software industry and you don't have a deep
appreciation for open source and admiration for it, that probably just means
that you haven't learned enough about it.

{{</ podcast-episode/clipping >}}

{{< box-collapsible title="Full transcript" class="podcast-transcript is-expanded" >}}

**David Mytton** (00:05): Welcome to the Console Podcast. I'm David Mytton,
co-founder of console.dev, a free weekly newsletter, highlighting the best and
most interesting tools for developers.

In this first episode, I speak with Joseph Jacks, founder and general partner at
OSS Capital, a venture fund specializing in open source software. We discuss why
open source is such an important differentiator for all software development;
the philosophy behind open source, open core, and building a community around
open-source software; whether open source should be the default for all
software; and what he looks for in investments. We're keeping this to 30
minutes, so let's get started.

I'm here with Joseph Jacks. JJ, thanks for joining the Console Podcast.

**Joseph Jacks** (00:52): Thanks for having me, David.

**David Mytton** (00:54): Let's start with a brief background. Tell us a little
bit about what you are currently doing and how you got here.

**Joseph Jacks** (00:59): Well, I'm currently the founder and general partner of
a venture fund called OSS Capital, OSS stands for Open-Source Software, and we
invest in what we call commercial open-source software companies.

**David Mytton** (01:13): So let's start with your overall investing philosophy
then. You're very specific about investing in commercial open-source software.
What does that mean?

**Joseph Jacks** (01:22): Commercial open-source software is no different from
any other type of open-source software. Fundamentally, open source can be
commercialized by anyone, something like Linux. You could say, because Linux is
the basis for this big commercial business called Red Hat, Linux is a commercial
software. That's not really technically accurate. It's an open source
GPL-licensed piece of technology, so it is both non-commercial and commercial at
the same time. It's kind of interesting paradox that open-source technologies
have, sort of like quantum computing or something like that. But essentially,
what we focus on boils down to project like open-source projects and
technologies that we think could be the basis for a commercial product and a
commercial business that has a high level of commercial potential, basically.

**David Mytton** (02:17): The code licensed. So it being open source is really
an important differencing factor. Does that mean something broader? Or are you
focusing just on the license? What is it about open source that really excites
you?

**Joseph Jacks** (02:28): I think independent of what I'm doing with investing
in OSS Capital, I've always been just super drawn and excited by open source
ever since, really learning and understanding it more deeply, which is probably
10 or 12 years now. Open source itself, again, independent of what I'm doing, is
really the basis for the entire sort of digital technology world and universe
that we see. I mean I think the consumer internet or people would say Web 1.0 or
Web 2.0 wouldn't exist without open source coming before it, a lot of the big
internet companies wouldn't exist without open source. Many of the biggest SaaS
companies, I think pretty much every digital technology product, depends on the
existence of open source, and so it's pretty profound. I'd say if you're in the
technology industry or in the software industry and you don't have a deep
appreciation for open source and admiration for it, that probably just means
that you haven't learned enough about it.

But yeah, in the context of what I'm doing, OSS Capital came about because I'd
spent a few years as an entrepreneur, and prior to that, just working as an
employee in sales and kind of product capacities at different software
companies. I sort of really started to get obsessed with this observation that
there's kind of two types of technology companies or digital technology
companies in the world. There's ones that are based on an open source core on
one hand, and then there's ones that are based on a closed source core, the
opposite of an open source core, proprietary core, on the other hand.

Open-core companies, or open-source core companies, or commercial open-source
companies as we call them, we came up with this little acronym, COSS companies,
COSS companies, that's just easier to kind of refer to them without using all
these words, basically just refers to any software company that exists in
service of growing some specific core open-source technology. Typically, one
project could be a handful of projects, like HashiCorp has three or four core
very central projects that sort of serve as the basis for their whole company.

Yeah, I mean, it's just something that I've been really, really obsessed with
for a long time. In a venture industry, or I guess the venture capital world,
I'm not sure if you want to call it an industry, there's really only been a
handful of investors that have developed a strong reputation and sort of thesis
around investing in open source startups or open core startups. And they hadn't
ever applied an exclusive focus or a dedicated focus to this category. As I
learned that over the years, I realized that that was kind of a big opportunity
to build something that was just dedicated to investing in these types of
companies. That's basically what I've been doing for going on close to four
years now, which seems kind of crazy. Having fun so far and it's been a blast.

**David Mytton** (05:02): What is it about open source that you think is
responsible for such a widespread adoption? The cynical view could be that it's
free, but there must be something more profound as part of the philosophy.

**Joseph Jacks** (05:14): I think open source has seen a huge amount of adoption
because it's just the best way to build digital technology. When you have a
model that is sort of the best way to build something, I think the output of
that is that it creates the best options for people who creates the best tools
and infrastructure. I mean I think that that's kind of why every application or
every service or every digital experience that humans benefit from is largely
comprised of probably 80, 90% open-source code across the stack of things that
make up whatever Facebook, or even this app that we're using, this Zencastr app,
or Chrome Web Browser is based on probably 90 plus percent open-source Chromium
code, maybe even more. And that reality has just continued to propel open source
as a fundamental thing to other factors in the last kind of 10 or 15 years.
We've gone from maybe a billion or so people on the internet to multiple
billions of people on the internet in the last 10, 15 years.

And then in addition, actually the same guy that created Linux, Linus Torvalds,
also created this version control system for basically developing software and
versioning files and collaborating with other software developers called Git.
And about a decade ago, I think it was 2007, 2008, some entrepreneurs came along
and said, "Hey, we should build something like Facebook, but for Git." So
software developers can kind of have this social network abstraction around Git,
and store all the files and kind of interact with them and create higher level
constructs, like pull requests and issues and stuff.

And then I think in the last decade, really, open source development has
benefited hugely from just so many more humans being on the internet, combined
with the fact that we have GitHub for basically making it so easy to share and
collaborate around your source code, your open source largely. It's not like
GitHub was a brand new idea. Prior to GitHub in the previous era, I'm not sure
how many people remember SourceForge.

SourceForge was sort of the prior generation version of GitHub. I think it
didn't have as much wide scale success because there were just fewer people on
the internet and there's fewer software engineers in general as well in these
sort of late '90s to the early 2005, 2006 timeframe. So I think those are some
of the reasons.

**David Mytton** (07:29): The community is a huge aspect of it as well then.

**Joseph Jacks** (07:33): Yeah, definitely. I mean, I think the fact that people
can just connect in real time and share thoughts and ideas. Communities have all
different types of shapes and sizes and characteristics. And I think not all
communities are the same, and open source communities tend to be very fractal
and have a lot of different dimensions to them. But yeah, community is a good
word to describe the sort of qualities that open source embodies, for sure.

**David Mytton** (07:56): All right. Historically, I suppose open source has
been a license, so kind of a legal mechanism for distributing and allowing other
people to use software code. So it's therefore been something that developers
have thought a lot about, mainly when picking projects or licensing their own
things. Sometimes that's come down to just ideology, but we're now seeing a lot
more of these consumer type products appear where open sources become a major
part of the strategy. What do you think about this as an evolution? And why do
you think the open source is relevant to developers and non-developers?

**Joseph Jacks** (08:30): What you just described is one of the most exciting
and profoundly important developments to happen in really our species, I try to
be not too grandiose or anything, but our species and the existence of humans,
is people who are not deeply technical engineers or developers actually
appreciating the benefits of open source, which as you described, has really
just been relegated to like, "Oh, it's a license model," and applying that
license model to source code files that make up all the things that humans use.

Over the weekend, my seven-year-old kid, he was asking me if he could learn C++
because he's been playing with Scratch and stuff over the years. And he knows a
bit of Scratch scripting language. We use this sort of crazy shark app game that
he plays a lot. I went to the credit section, and I found the people behind it,
and I was kind of describing to him like, "Well, there's actually all this code
behind this app." He plays it on Nintendo Switch, and so we go on GitHub, and
there's a Nintendo Switch emulator code base written in C++, which I may have
actually found through your newsletter or someone else's newsletter recently.
But it's just kind of interesting to see how you can use open source as a way to
describe really profound things.

I guess going back to the non-technical societal interests in open source, I
don't know, I think there's a few things that are sort of unlocking this or are
making this interesting to people, and this was sort of societal mainstream. One
of them could be just an increased sensitivity to the importance of privacy and
the importance of being able to control and manage your digital footprint. I
think prior to just appreciating things like hacking vulnerabilities and data
manipulation and data exploitation, at a consumer level, people were just
ignorant. Right? Ignorance is bliss. They didn't really have the knowledge and
the mindset that allowed them to have the concerns in the first place.

And I think now that we've actually seen whether it's bad actors at the
corporate level and big internet companies, or just mispricing market dynamics
or not having the right services available for a specific consumer's need,
people are going and saying, "Hey, if I could actually take control of this
technology somehow, or if I could demand an alternative that gave me a
guarantee, my experience wasn't influenced in any kind of malicious way because
I could trust it in a more trusted and secure environment somehow." I think
people are gradually realizing that there's kind of just one fundamental
solution and framework that enables all of that, and it's open source.

I guess my big hope with this, because it is starting to become a really big
thing, I think more than a hundred million people who've moved off of Telegram
and WhatsApp, for example, to Signal, which is an open source messaging
application. And that's one of the least non-technical applications you could
use. You just download it on your phone and put in your phone number and you can
start messaging with people securely. It's an open source application run by a
nonprofit company or sort of foundation. It's kind of a fundamental piece of
internet infrastructure. I think we're going to see more and more consumer
applications like that for those reasons, just people have increased sensitivity
to privacy, increased sensitivity to how good is the technology. And if it's
open and built in this kind of collaborative open source way, maybe it can be
the best technology and the most secure technology with all the best features
and stuff.

I think people are just sort of slowly starting to realize that. My suspicion,
like I was saying, I think it's largely because of just an increased sensitivity
to the importance of privacy and the importance of trust and being able to
actually trust the technology. And to reiterate, the biggest concern that I have
of the consumer's ability to be manipulated is, if you drive down the highway,
or the Autobahn, or wherever you're at in the world, and you see these
billboards by Apple that says, "The iPhone equals privacy," these are huge
campaigns that some of the biggest multinational technology companies are
running. It's just a categorical lie over how the technologies that people
purchase are fundamentally insecure and cannot be trusted.

Now, the question is, what is the trade off? Can you trade the level of trust
that you would be able to have in some particular piece of technology in
exchange for a better experience and an easier experience and a higher quality
product, perhaps? And I think that we're just going to continue to see that.
Look, I'm an iPhone user too. I'm a very happy consumer of a lot of proprietary
products, but I think, over time, as society realizes that putting trust in the
hands of many who are held to a very high transparency standard is always better
than putting trust in the hands of a few that are held to a very, very low
transparency standard.

I think, fundamentally, as people start to realize that, and then as the tools
and options become more available, like open source alternatives and then open
source, not just alternatives, but sort of replacements that are even better and
that transform existing categories and transform existing areas in the
technology space, can actually serve to unlock a better path. I think we'll
start to see even faster mainstream changes. But yeah, to your point, I mean
it's slowly starting to happen, just at a sort of mental recognition level. And
I think over time, people are actually going to start making behavioral changes
more rapidly.

**David Mytton** (14:00): That makes sense. So I suppose it comes down to the
ability to see what's going on in the tools and systems and products that you're
using. I remember playing around with stuff when I was much younger and wanting
to know how something works. You just take it apart and play around with the
mechanisms, and then maybe you can put it back together again. But with
proprietary software, you can't do that. If it's open source, you can get access
to the code and you might not understand it initially, but you can start
figuring it out and learning how all these different products actually work, and
to your point, verifying the claims around privacy and security and those kinds
of things.

**Joseph Jacks** (14:33): Yeah. Here's one other piece that I would like to say
which I think is important is, open source was really created and kind of
invented by someone. It didn't just kind of come along through osmosis. So this
guy Richard Stallman in the early 1980s came along and was like, "Hey, I'm
really upset with how software developers are getting manipulated." His view was
much more philosophically, ideologically charged, "It's just like evil, we're
getting manipulated and it's exploitation." And so he was so motivated by that
ideology that he created this license framework. So kind of the inverse of the
close to a century old at that point, copyright framework, he called it
copyleft, and he created a license model. And then he created a set of tools and
started to contribute to the early underpinnings of what ultimately became the
Linux operating system.

That first 15 years or so from the early '80s to the late '90s was dominated by
this very ideological fringe software hacker community, appreciating the
benefits of this approach. And then a group of people in the late '90s came
along and said, "Yeah, I mean this is interesting. This is really profound
stuff. The Internet's about to take off. We need to give this a new name." They
basically came together, and I'm lucky enough to know a handful of those people.
Actually, one of them is my business partner at OSS Capital, Bruce Perens. But
there were a handful of people that came together in 1998 and they said, "Let's
call this whole model open source. Instead of calling it free software, let's
call it open source." Because free, in so many different languages, has
different meanings and different connotations. This is difficult to understand
what free even means.

The term open source is really given to provide more of a pragmatic marketing
banner around all these concepts. And really, I think what we've seen in the
last 20 years since that rebranding happened is, open source is the kind of
phrase that people use. You don't hear free software as much. It's much more
fringe. Free software is still out there and there's still a community. But one
of the things that I hope is that people take open source and they understand
the concepts, but they don't apply ideology or sort of ethics or morals to it.
It's really just a framework that allows for a better way and a better future.
It has nothing to do with religion or right or wrong. It just is. There's
hundreds or thousands of open-source projects that are used to do incredible,
amazing things in the world and transform industries and provide incredible
experiences. Those same projects are used by terrorists to kill people. And
they're used by nation states to commit horrible atrocities on their own
population or other populations. And that just is. You can't discriminate.

One of the fundamental tenets of open source which I think is very critical is,
you cannot discriminate how the technology is used and how it can change and
evolve over time. Creating that framework is really critical. So those are
deeper, deeper concepts. And open source does mean a lot of very specific
things. Now we start to change it too much. It's not open source anymore, which
also isn't necessarily bad at all. But I'm hopeful that the fundamental aspects
of open source are appreciated by the continual sort of reinvigoration of
excitement in the industry and in the society around what those ideas stand for.
Probably the most recent manifestation of this is, I'm skipping ahead to one of
your later questions, but Web3, crypto, all of these ideas are basically a
rebranding yet again of fundamentally what open source is all about. This idea
of decentralized development, decentralized distribution, permissionless
innovation, literally all of these ideas are grounded on open source, which in
my mind, from what I can see, I hear so little about open source and the
criticality of open source, which came decades before the Bitcoin white paper
was released in 2008.

In the context of that whole movement of blockchain and crypto and Web3, I hear
much more about making money and much more about capitalism than I do about open
source. The very funny and ironic thing is about how critical open source is to
that entire movement. Without open source, Web3 never would've existed, crypto
never would've existed, and Bitcoin never would've been able to exist. Satoshi
took the Bitcoin spec, implemented it in C++, by the way, an open source
programming language, and that implementation of Bitcoin was MIT licensed, and
it still is MIT licensed to this day, which is one of the most popular and
permissive open source licenses. People should have a more grounded
understanding of open source actually what it means, and the fact that it's
contributed so immeasurably to the entire digital economy, that the world would
be a very different place without it.

**David Mytton** (19:04): Would that mean then that you think all software
should be open source by default?

**Joseph Jacks** (19:09): I think eventually, I do. I do think eventually all
software should be open source by default. I don't think it's necessary today.
The world operates in a pretty functional and rewarding state because not all
software is open source. And in fact, a big part of the model that I'm pursuing,
frankly my investments are benefiting from as well, is the combination and the
sort of the synthesis of closed source around open source, not the other way
around, where you have proprietary software at the core and then open source at
the edges. What I think is a better transition and a pathway to the future where
everything is open source is where we gradually eat. The apple or whatever
metaphorical fruit you want to choose from the inside out versus from the
outside in, it would just be a lot more efficient and fundamentally easier and
structurally allow for better evolution and experimentation and inclusion and a
lot of things, especially from the engineering community where things tend to be
more bottoms up and sort of inside out versus outside in.

And so that's this whole open-core model where you have a company, like an
entrepreneur software engineer comes along and says, "Hey, actually, I want to
build this app or this tool. I think it'll be useful for the world." Instead of
starting off and building that as a proprietary widget or proprietary binary of
some kind or proprietary software, they can start by building it as an
open-source tool, build a community around it, get a lot of adoption. What I
think continuously happens is, those projects, as they reach high levels of
adoption and high levels of impact, there's multiple personas of users that
start to materialize in those communities. There's users who are satisfied and
happy with 99% of all the functionality and the benefits and capabilities they
can get out of that project. And they're never going to pay anyone any money for
anything because it's just satisfying all their needs, or 99.9% of all their
needs.

And then you have another group of people who are like, "Wow, I love this
project. There's so many people in my organization that are using it." It could
be small companies, medium companies, big companies. And they say, "Look, I need
this to be integrated with this set of proprietary services I have that my
business depends on." It could be an old mainframe application, or it could be
some old database. Or, "I need to build monitoring and security and governance
features around this thing, so I can secure it and run it more efficiently."
Those pieces of software don't necessarily need to be open source. I don't
think. Because what it does is, it actually allows for some value capture, some
monetization by some business, or maybe even the creator of the open source
project.

That's the whole model that I'm obsessed with, is convincing the open source
maintainer or the open source author, creator themselves, to start a company and
build a commercial business around it while also sustaining the growth of that
core open-source project. A really easy example, Mr. Linus Torvalds created
Linux and he created Git. Both of those projects have caused the creation of
something in the order of around a half a dozen multi-billion dollar businesses.
A half a dozen.

**David Mytton** (22:13): Right.

**Joseph Jacks** (22:13): A half a dozen of them.

**David Mytton** (22:15): Amazing.

**Joseph Jacks** (22:16): On the Git side, we have GitHub, we have GitLab, we
have a bunch of others. Actually, 10 plus billion dollar business is there. On
the Linux side, we have Red Hat, we have SUSE, we have a long list of the Linux
distribution vendors. Head Linux just been offered or given 1% of those
companies. I mean he would be far wealthier than he is today, working for the
Linux Foundation, who... By the way, I'm good friends with Jim Zemlin. Jim's
done amazing work and created incredible abundance for a lot of very, very
talented and invaluable humans, who've created open source tools that have
changed the world. I love Jim's work and I'm a huge fan. But I'm a bigger fan of
capitalism. And I think capitalism is an incredibly powerful model for creating
abundance and change and innovation in the world.

Everything I'm doing is basically driven to encourage and help more open source
creators to become entrepreneurs and to become founders of companies around
their projects. I don't think it's a trade off of selling out or going to the
dark side or taking a project and then pulling the rug under the feet of your
users. There's certainly ways that you can do that. And I would view those as
anti-patterns and not positive things for those ecosystems in those communities.
But I think that the world would just be a far more exciting and interesting
place if you had this progression where pretty much every human realizes that
the most lucrative, most sort of wealthy part of the global economy is in the
technology industry, as sort of the first order conclusion.

The second order conclusion would be in the technology industry. The people who
are compensated and rewarded the most are the people who actually build the
technology and create the businesses that go to market. In some cases, some
people choose to purely build the technology, and they don't choose to start the
businesses, but they can still contribute to growing those businesses by being
employees of them or early advisors or investors. But in some cases, some people
just decide to start the companies and to not build the technology, which is, I
think, why we have a lot of very wealthy entrepreneurs who didn't actually
create the technologies. They just sort of stitched the technologies together,
i.e., all the open source, and they built very large consumer internet
businesses and became very wealthy as a result.

I'm not saying that that approach is wrong either. But what I think would be far
more exciting is if we had a more direct connection between the process of
creating digital technologies at a fundamental level, in other words, the open
source contributions and how entrepreneurship actually works. And educating open
source maintainers about how easy it is to make the progression, if they want
to, that's not a sort of required path, but making it more easy for them to
realize, "Wow, you can create your project and you can create a company around
it." And that business could potentially raise some venture capital. By the way,
there's pretty much the entire venture capital industry obsessed with open
source companies. And that's a pretty new phenomena kind of over the last couple
years.

So you can easily raise venture capital if your project has a certain degree of
traction, adoption and commercial applicability, and sort of valid market
alignment and so forth. And you're potentially the right person to build that
business. Or guess what? You don't even need to really raise venture capital in
a lot of cases. You can build something that's extremely capital efficient, and
instead raise money directly from your customers. You don't always need to raise
venture capital. In fact, not raising venture capital and building a company
that you own a hundred percent of is maybe, in many cases, a much, much better
decision, obviously a lot of trade offs there.

**David Mytton** (25:40): Oh, that's interesting. So how should developers think
about this from the start then? And how have you seen the most successful
projects evolve over time, particularly if they don't start with that intention
to commercialize? Any common errors that developers should try and avoid?

**Joseph Jacks** (25:55): Yeah. I mean, there's so many questions in there. I
think every journey and every evolutionary path is very different. I've
obviously studied these companies intimately for many years, and I've looked at
a lot of different paths. There's a few things to kind of keep in mind, is if
your intention is to build a business around your open-source project and your
open-source invention, just be explicit and clear about that from the beginning
with at least your internal stakeholders and your supporters, as well as your
community. I think that that's actually really, really important. And the reason
for that is, it just creates higher levels of trust and alignment. There's other
things that you can do beyond just being open source that creates a lot of trust
and alignment. It's really by being clear by your intentions and your
expectations.

Expectations are pretty different from intentions. They're kind of the inverse
of each other. Expectations are kind of like, what do you think is likely to
happen, or what do you expect will happen from the reaction to your work and
your project. And your intention is kind of going out and saying, "Hey, this is
what I plan to do. This is what I want to do. And this is what you should expect
of me." The expectation side is the inverse of that, which is what I expect from
you. One thing that I think not enough developers do, honestly, even independent
of building a commercial open-source business around their open-source project,
or just being an open source maintainer and not having an interest in being an
entrepreneur or starting a business.

The biggest piece of execution, a miss almost or something that is neglected a
lot, is being super clear about your intentions and your expectations. You can
really do that very early on, even if you don't have a super large community, or
a lot of data or feedback from your user base or from people actually playing
with your technology. You can be very, very clear about your intentions and your
expectations early on. I think that there aren't any necessarily good or bad
intentions or expectations as long as you're clear about them. The biggest
mistakes that I see here, when there is the absence of expectations or
intentions. And then sort of two, three years into a project, huge community,
massive success. And then every week, invariably, there's dozens or hundreds of
people saying, "Oh, hey maintainer, can you please fix this for me?" or not even
saying please, but demanding that something be fixed or requesting features, and
maintainers getting burned out or maintainers getting frustrated, or the
creators getting just exhausted and rotating out of the project, or saying it's
just not sustainable.

**David Mytton** (28:31): Before we wrap up then, I have two lightning questions
for you. So the first one is, what interesting dev tools are you playing around
with at the moment?

**Joseph Jacks** (28:41): I'm not really a developer, so I don't think I can
give a good answer to this question. I can code. I'm pretty technical, and I
learn about a lot of different technologies all the time. I'm not a programmer
on a day-to-day basis. Yeah. I mean, I was in IntelliJ yesterday with my kid. I
have a very junky homegrown development setup, so I'm not really playing around
with dev tools too much.

**David Mytton** (29:02): Okay. So perhaps more broadly then, what's your
current tech setup, hardware, software? What are you using?

**Joseph Jacks** (29:09): Currently, in my home office, I'm on Apple iMac. I've
got a Rode microphone, and I've got one of these Key Light Air backlight things.
I've got a Sony, looks like a Sony A600 or something of that sort, an HD camera.
Pretty much it, pretty simple. And I've got my iPhone on my desk.

**David Mytton** (29:30): Well, unfortunately, that's all we've got time for.
Thanks for joining us, JJ.

**Joseph Jacks** (29:34): Thank you for having me, David.

**David Mytton** (29:36): Thanks for listening to the Console DevTools podcast.
Please let us know what you think on Twitter, I'm @DavidMytton, and you can
follow @consoledotdev. Don't forget to subscribe and rate us in your podcast
player. And if you are playing around with or building any interesting dev
tools, please get in touch. Our email is in the show notes. See you next time.

{{</ box-collapsible >}}
