#### What are some recent examples of interesting development challenges solved by internal teams as part of building the product?

As we've expanded the company, our code base has expanded as well – we have the
core product, but then we also have FusionAuth account management to manage
licenses and payment, and FusionAuth Cloud that's interacting with AWS which
manages the lifecycle of a FusionAuth instance in the cloud.

Today, if you buy FusionAuth Cloud and you want your own custom URL, we kick off
a job that will create you a certificate then assign that to your service. We do
that all through AWS cloud services, however Amazon puts quotas and limits on
every possible thing you can think of. We have customers that white label
FusionAuth, so they have one-to-many custom URLs per client so they may require
thousands or hundreds of thousands of URLs. This scale quickly breaks down
within the AWS quota model.

To solve this, we built a micro service that replaces Amazon services such as
ACM and ALBs so that we can offer our clients one to many thousands of
certificates and names per service. We built this solution on top of Caddy which
is a popular open source HTTP server written in Go. We love supporting software
that we use, so FusionAuth is now sponsoring Caddy to support their continued
development.

Implementing this was fun and way more complicated than you’d think. The basics
were really simple but the devil was in the details due to the DNS and routing
requirements when switching service between AWS regions in a disaster recovery
scenario. But the final solution is great and it allows us to dynamically
provision certificates for new URLs.

For clients that will utilize this new capability, they can just log into their
FusionAuth account, create a new record indicating the URL they wish to utilize.
That’s it, now the first time we see that traffic on that URL, it is routed
through FusionAuth Cloud and the certificate is dynamically provisioned using
Let's Encrypt. It's an extremely low friction way for customers to add new
service URLs in FusionAuth Cloud.
