---
title: Welcome to Console
date: 2021-02-11T17:07:35Z
draft: false
summary: Console’s mission is to help developers do their best work.
isPage: about
headerType: fixed
---

Discover the best tools and jobs for developers.
{.description}

Console’s mission is to help developers do their best work. Whether reviewing
the best tools in our devtools newsletter, interviewing technical experts on our
podcast, investing in early-stage developer-first startups, or helping
developers find the best place to work, Console has grown quickly to be a
trusted, independent resource for experienced developers.

{{< img-2col src1="/img/david.jpg" alt1="David Mytton" src2="/img/max.jpg" alt2="Max Jennings">}}

{{< div-caption >}} Console Co-founders David Mytton & Max Jennings.

David Mytton is CEO of Console. In 2009, he founded and was CEO of Server
Density, a SaaS cloud monitoring startup acquired in 2018 by edge compute
platform, StackPath. He is also researching [sustainable
computing](https://davidmytton.blog/sustainable-computing/) in the Department of
Engineering Science at the University of Oxford, and has been a developer for
15+ years.

Max has 20+ years tech experience scaling and investing in start-ups with
extensive product and marketing experience. Previous start-ups he co-founded
have been acquired by Retailmenot Inc, Expedia and GCAP Media. Most recently he
co-founded popular family app Hoop, chosen by Apple as App of the Year twice.{{<
/div-caption >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open anchor-name="selection-criteria" >}}

### What we do

We spend all day every day immersed in the world of development and bring years
of experience to understanding the needs of experienced developers. It’s our job
to do the filtering, so developers can stay up-to-date with the tools,
technologies, services, and places to work that matter, and focus on what they
do best. Building.

#### Console Devtools Newsletter

Console started in early-2021 as a [weekly newsletter](/latest/) for experienced
developers to discover the best tools and beta releases. Now at {{< param consoleSubscribers >}}
subscribers, 77% with >5 years coding experience, we continue to
[review](/tools/) the best developer tools, [track](/betas/) the latest beta and
early access releases, [profile](/profiles/) interesting companies, interview
technical experts on [our podcast](/podcast/), and connect our audience to [the
people behind the code](/interviews/).

We pride ourselves on being transparent in our editorial approach and have
[strict selection criteria](/selection-criteria/) for everything we review. All
potential partners who wish to sponsor a review must meet our selection criteria
before we will work with them. Partners are able to choose the date of their
review, which will appear first in the newsletter, but they do not get to
influence or even read the review before it is published.

#### Jobs Console

In addition to helping developers find the best tools, [we profile](/profiles/)
how the most interesting companies run their engineering teams. We believe that
the best developers rarely look for a new job, but they may be tempted by
particularly interesting opportunities. This is where [Jobs
Console](https://jobs.console.dev/) comes in, a weekly email digest of the best
2-3 jobs that match preferences set by each individual developer. 

Working with companies who are looking to grow their development team, we only
send the best, most relevant jobs, and connect developers directly to the hiring
manager once both sides have flagged their interest.

#### Console Zero

Console also [invests](/zero/) in early stage startups building products where
developers are the primary user. If we'd recommend it to the developers
subscribed to our devtools newsletter, we'd also consider investing. 

So far we’ve made >20 pre-seed, seed, and series A investments in startups such
as [CloudQuery](https://www.cloudquery.io/),
[Liveblocks](https://liveblocks.io/), [Primer](https://primer.io/),
[Railway](https://railway.app/), and [Trunk](https://trunk.io/).

#### Find out more

To learn more about Console, check out the [Console
blog](https://blog.console.dev/) where you can follow our progress. To start, we
recommend reading our thoughts on the '[Age of the
Developer](https://blog.console.dev/focusing-on-developers/)'. We aim to be open
and transparent so everyone can {{< a-link
url="https://github.com/consoledotdev" text="see what we're building"
icon-right="github" >}} so we publish [monthly status
updates](https://blog.console.dev/tag/status-update/) about our progress.

If you spot (or are working on) something you think we should know about, or
want to work with us, reach out: [hello@console.dev](mailto:hello@console.dev).

### Our company

Console Labs, Inc. 548 Market St, San Francisco, California 94104 US.

{{< section-subscribe >}}
