---
title: Frontend platforms
who: Matt Biilmann
whoLink: https://twitter.com/biilmann
what: We discuss what it was like deploying code before Netlify, whether there is
    about to be a fragmentation in the JavaScript ecosystem as React gets more
    opinionated, where state and data fit into the Jamstack model, and how you
    might reach developers with a new project today.
season: 4
episode: 6
date: 2023-06-01T06:00:00Z
duration: "33:09"
episodeURL: https://cdn.simplecast.com/audio/10488ddf-3ca4-4300-9391-c2967d806334/episodes/658266b4-fd9e-47a0-96ca-6aa217f8d1d6/audio/aec9c195-be71-48f4-bcf7-de8a87a227c5/default_tc.mp3
draft: false
summary: "Frontend platforms - a devtools discussion with Matt Biilmann (Netlify).
    Console Devtools Podcast: Episode 6 (Season 4)."
metaDescription: "Frontend platforms - a devtools discussion with Matt Biilmann (Netlify).
    Console Devtools Podcast: Episode 6 (Season 4)."
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
isSubpage: podcast-episode
pageType: podcast-episode
customPageStyle: true
xlViewport:
    largeText: true
topImg1Src: /img/podcast/netlify-matt-biilmann.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/netlify.com.png
ogImg: /img/podcast/podcast-cover.jpeg
twitterCard: https://player.simplecast.com/658266b4-fd9e-47a0-96ca-6aa217f8d1d6
authorName: David Mytton
authorURL: https://davidmytton.blog/start
authorImg: /img/david.jpg
authorBio: is Co-founder & CEO of Console. In 2009, he founded and was CEO of Server
    Density, a SaaS cloud monitoring startup acquired in 2018 by edge compute
    and cyber security company, StackPath. He is also researching sustainable
    computing in the Department of Engineering Science at the University of
    Oxford, and has been a developer for 15+ years.
author2Name: Jean Yang
author2URL: https://twitter.com/jeanqasaur
author2Img: /img/podcast/akita-jean-yang-profile.jpg
author2Bio: is CEO of Akita Software. Jean earned her PhD in software correctness and
    programming language design from MIT and then became a professor in computer
    science at Carnegie Mellon University before she started Akita to build the
    future of API observability.
---

### Episode notes

In this episode, we speak with Matt Biilmann, CEO of
[**Netlify**](https://www.netlify.com/). We discuss what it was like deploying
code before Netlify, whether there is about to be a fragmentation in the
JavaScript ecosystem as React gets more opinionated, where state and data fit
into the Jamstack model, and how you might reach developers with a new project
today. You’ll hear about the evolution of Netlify’s model, the Gatsby
acquisition, and how Netlify has succeeded at staying on top of the
fast-changing landscape.

**Things mentioned:**

-   [React](https://react.dev/)
-   [Shopify](https://www.shopify.com/)
-   [Java](https://www.java.com/)
-   [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/)
-   [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
-   [WordPress](https://wordpress.com/)
-   [SolidJS](https://www.solidjs.com/)
-   [PlanetScale](https://planetscale.com/)
-   [Neon](https://neon.tech/)
-   [Ruby on Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/)
-   [Astro](https://astro.build/)
-   [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/)
-   [Nostr](https://nostr.com/)
-   [MacBook](https://www.apple.com/macbook-pro/)

<RichTitle
    tag="h5"
    icon={{ group: "generic", name: "future-head" }}
    text="About
Matt Biilmann"
/>

Matt Biilmann is the CEO and Co-Founder of Netlify, a cloud platform that helps
people build, deploy, and operate websites, web applications, and web stores
swiftly and with ease. He has a long history of building DevTools, content
management systems, and web infrastructure. Matt has been an active participant
in open source and contributed to many well-known projects, including Ruby on
Rails, JRuby, and Mongoid. Since launching its private beta back in March 2015,
Netlify is now used by 3.5 million developers and is one of the fastest-growing
web development platforms in the world.

### Highlights

<PodcastEpisodeClipping atTime="03:58">

**Matt Biilmann:** I really believed that we would move away from that model and
move to a model where we would decouple the actual web experience layer into its
own layer that web teams can build and deploy independently, and hopefully much
faster. But I also saw at the time that there wasn't any tooling or
infrastructure or workflows around that. So early on, when we started Netlify,
there wasn't even a name for this web building. We had to come up with the term
“Jamstack” to describe this idea of building the web experience layer on its own
and typically seeing the backend split into all these different APIs and
services, like all the headless CMSs that’s really become mainstream now.

</PodcastEpisodeClipping>

<PodcastEpisodeClipping atTime="17:09">

**Matt Biilmann:** Right now, what we're seeing happening around generative AI
is probably going to change a lot of how we interface with computers over time,
right? It’s already almost at the edge where you can imagine stitching a few
tools together, and you would be having this kind of conversation with a
program, rather than with a human. I think as that starts to happen, that will
start to massively redefine how we consume content and commerce and so on. It
will probably change a lot of what it means to build a website.

</PodcastEpisodeClipping>

<BoxCollapsible expanded title="Full transcript"
  classes={["podcast-transcript"]}>

**David Mytton \[00:00:04\]:** Welcome to another episode of the Console
DevTools Podcast. I'm David Mytton, CEO of Console.dev, a free weekly email
digest to the best tools and beta releases for experienced developers.

**Jean Yang \[00:00:15\]:** And I'm Jean Yang, CEO of Akita Software, the
fastest and easiest way to understand your APIs.

**David Mytton \[00:00:23\]:** In this episode, Jean and I speak with Matt
Biilmann, CEO of Netlify. We discuss what it was like deploying code before
Netlify, whether there is about to be a fragmentation in the JavaScript
ecosystem as React gets more opinionated, where state and data fit into the
Jamstack model, and how you might reach developers with a new project today.
We're keeping this to 30 minutes. So let's get started.

**David Mytton \[00:00:48\]:** We're here with Matt Biilmann. Let's start with a
brief background. Tell us a little bit about what you're currently doing and how
you got here.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:00:55\]:** Thanks for having me here. I’m Matt Biilmann,
CEO and Co-Founder of Netlify. I’ve been at it for a while now. We launched our
private beta back in March 2015. By now, we've onboarded about three and a half
million developers through our platform and we are reaching around a billion
unique visitors to sites and apps running a Netlify every month. So currently
keeping busy or managing all of that.

**Jean Yang \[00:01:23\]:** Great, thank you. So most of us here may have heard
of Netlify. We're Netlify users at my company. But for people who aren't
familiar, could you just give the audience a quick description of what Netlify
is?

**\[00:01:36\] Matt Biilmann:** Yes, of course. We're a cloud platform that
helps teams build, deploy, and operate websites, web applications, web stores,
really focusing on reducing all of the friction around actually building
valuable experiences for end users and leading developers to just focus on
building the front-end code. We'll handle all of the release, management, and
infrastructure, and instrumentation, and so on, and help you build successful
projects.

**David Mytton \[00:02:05\]:** It sounds like it's really easy these days.
Developers who have only started in the last couple of years are probably used
to amazing experiences of getting code into production really quickly but that's
not really how it always was, right? Can you go back a little bit in the past
and describe what it was like before Netlify and whether you think this would
have been inevitable, whether you were there or not, and why you think you
really changed the game?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:02:29\]:** It has been pretty amazing to see how this way
of building has really become the default now, right? Early on, when we started,
the world we were in, were generally people building every single website, a web
store, a web application as one big monolithic application.

If you looked at the dominating tool sets at the time, if you're building
websites, you're probably using WordPress or Drupal, or Joomla. If you were
building, I mean, a large enterprise, you might be using Adobe Experience
Manager, and Sitecore, and Episerver. Or if you're building e-commerce, you're
probably either writing liquid templates for Shopify or working with Magento. Or
if you're building applications, typically, you’re at full stack web
applications, in the Ruby on Rails for more forward startups, and typically Java
or .NET or so on for larger enterprises, right?

That meant that, often, almost all of the front-end technology was basically
decided by the backend platform. Typically, the backend developers would have
more organizational pull and heavier weight. So very often, that meant that the
actual front-end toolset that people were building web experiences with was sort
of like a set of tools almost chosen from them and very constrained by how they
fit into some larger backend that needed to handle data access and business
logic and all of that.

What I saw early on was that I really believed that we would move away from that
model and move to a model where we would decouple the actual web experience
layer into its own layer that web teams can build and deploy independently and,
hopefully, much faster. But I also saw at the time that there wasn't sort of any
tooling or infrastructure or workflows around that.

So early on, when we started Netlify, there wasn't even a name for this web
building. We had to come up with the term ‘Jamstack’ to describe this idea of
building the web experience layer on its own and typically seeing the backend
split into all these different APIs and services, all the headless CMSs that
it's really become mainstream now, right? All their headless commerce platforms
that now are also starting to become mainstream. Even the big players like
Shopify are starting to think how do we become a headless commerce platform,
right?

That was what we supported. But we also saw when we got started, that this
seemed like inherently a better way of building for the web, but people were not
able to do it because every project meant setting up with object stories, and
release management, and CDN management, and figuring out where the bits and
pieces that you do need to run in the servers, should run. Then separate release
management processes for those. Then figuring out how does your front-end know
when there's content changes, setting up complex webhooks systems, and so on,
right? There were teams doing it. But it was not a lot of teams, and it was
really hard to do, right?

So we really, before we started Netlify, made a roadmap around what would it
take to make it really easy to do. What would it require to make this a really
simple way to go for the web? That became the first roadmap for Netlify, right?
Now, it feels like in the landscape of early adopters and technologists and
startups and so on, that approach have really become mainstream, right? I think
very few people in that segment will go start a new project on top of WordPress.
Or pick Ruby on Rails and write their front-end, just instead of like pick
templates inside of a Rails app or stuff like that, right?

But on the other hand, it's important to remember that most of the world is
still building in the old way, right? I think we had just now sort of hit that
tipping point, where we're starting to see this really move from the early
adopters that are fully on board and the interest of the early majority of all
the large mid-market to enterprise companies out there that are trying to figure
out, okay, this, obviously, works better, and we can see the results companies
are getting from it. But how do we get there?

**Jean Yang \[00:06:33\]:** Great. Thanks, Matt. So related is the question
about the original vision of Netlify. Would you say that you've realized it, and
now it's a matter of spreading it around the world? Or are you still partway
along the entire path to realizing the full vision?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:06:51\]:** There's still ways to go, I think. I think we've
realized part of the vision, right? I think this kind of front-end cloud layer
that we pioneered and where we really built the first one, right? That's even
now becoming a competitive space, which is a healthy sign, right? It’s a sign
that now it's a real thing. It's not just Netlify. There's a lot of them out
there by now with Gatsby Cloud, Vercel, Amplify, Console, Azure Static Web Apps,
Cloudflare Pages\], and so on, right? It’s starting to become real categories
that we've really, from the beginning, been the leaders of.

But I think, especially as you're thinking about these larger companies adopting
this, there's still a lot of work to do in terms of figuring out the interfaces
between all these different APIs and services that they have both internally and
that they buy it externally and how that fits into an architecture. How do we
actually make the data from all of those available through web teams in a simple
way? How do you not end up feeling that every single project starts with a lot
of blue code to just get data in and out and get services connected? How do you
handle the right layers of permissions and authentication on that layer? There's
a lot of areas in that interface layer between more the architects and the
people responsible for how do we think about this not as a single web project
here and there, but as an architecture for our company?

Then, I think there's also still some work to do on the other hand, especially
when we're more in the landscape of marketing sites or e-commerce, but even
applications as well, right? I think as we're retooling this whole landscape,
some of the tools you would get from a https://wordpress.com/or Drupal in the
old world or from some of the full stack frameworks in the old world, giving
your marketing people easy ways to go and do visual editing on landing pages and
so on, or giving product managers simple ways to set up experiments inside your
app and so on. I think as we've decoupled the data sources and the UI and so on,
we have some work to do in terms of building architectural patterns, pulling
those things together again, and giving everybody, not just the developers, the
sense that they have a better world to develop in than the one they moved away
from.

**David Mytton \[00:09:10\]:** How much of that do you think is tied to language
and framework? I suppose you've talked about WordPress and Drupal which are PHP
and still very popular. But I just suppose the more modern way of building
things from scratch now is TypeScript. You've got Gatsby, which I think you've
acquired recently. There's Next.js and all sorts of other frameworks.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:09:30\]:** SvelteKit, Solid, Knox, to VitePress, Astro,
right? There’s a really wide landscape. I think the way it's really coupled is
that now all of those web developers have frameworks that are really built for
them to build UIs with. Where before, they were working inside frameworks that
were built for getting data out of a database, defining business logic around
it, running server-side workloads and so on with some front-end stuff bolted on
through it, right?

Again, I think that's a big difference in this but also the challenge, right? As
we start decoupling these pieces, that’s in sort of the recoupling. Okay, how do
we still make it as intuitive as it was in a WordPress setting to actually get
your product and commerce data into that front-end framework and make them feel
like they know each other? And how do we make it as easy to build tooling for
the other stakeholders on top of that in a world where you know that that
front-end framework layer is really flexible and it can shift around a lot?

But for us, it's all about enabling their ability to build those frameworks and
move fast in that framework space, right? We've never believed in – like other
companies in our space build way more of a strategy of building a whole stack
around a framework, which has some clear advantages, right? But we've always
believed more in that, especially at larger companies, you inherently start
having many different frameworks, especially as time progresses. We are sort of
more thinking if we know that that is like a shifting landscape, how do we be
good at supporting each of them, but also be good at building tooling that works
across all of them?

**Jean Yang \[00:11:15\]:** Yes. I think that's really insightful. Software is
just inherently heterogeneous, and I believe that any company that's trying to
homogenize is fighting too much.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:11:25\]:** Yes, yes. Especially the larger the company
gets, right? You start doing acquisitions that come through their own tech
stack. You start just having, like I said, projects that you don't have the
resources to migrate to something new, right? It’s just the reality of any large
company. It's different for early-stage startups or even grow startups that
might be more simpler in the tech stack, right? But once you have a really large
company that's been around for a while, it's also going to have a really large
tech stack with a lot of heterogeneous elements in it.

**Jean Yang \[00:11:57\]:** Exactly. And the hot tool, the useful tool, that all
changes over time. So any company that's older than 10 years old, you can't
expect to use anything the same anymore. Yeah, I think that's very, very smart.

**David Mytton \[00:12:09\]:** Yes, especially in the JavaScript framework
ecosystem. There's always something new and shiny. But React seems to have been
basically the popular framework for a very long time. Do you think that is
because of the way it's been designed? It's just so popular. Or because I
suppose it's easier to understand, bringing in the components or that kind of
stuff? Why do you think that's been able to maintain its position?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:12:30\]:** So ironically, I think it might be a little bit
about to change because, to some degree, I think it's maintained that position
because it had a relatively small surface area and it was relatively similar for
a very long time, right? The team has been working on making some really big
changes, but they've also taken a very long time. So in reality, the surface
area has been relatively simple.

I think the key value there was really the ability to think about UI as a set of
components that you could work on in isolation. I think it was also very
unopinionated frameworks. If you look at some of the largest React, if you look
at the presence on the React in the web, it's easy to think that it's all about
Next and Gatsby. But a large point is Wix, right? They adopted React for their
component system, right? It’s all over. If you read tutorials on WordPress, and
if you just look at React and Gutenberg, you'll see lots of tutorials on how to
use React components for the visual page builder of WordPress sites and so on,
right?

So I think people maybe underestimate how it also got to that level of market
penetration by existing in a very heterogeneous world, all over the place. I
think now some interesting things are happening. I think the React team is
taking a more opinionated approach now and, obviously, collaborating a lot with
the Next team. I think that gives them some really cool opportunities of
building an end-to-end framework that has a stronger view of the world. But I
think it might also mean that some other tools might start flooding into that
more pictures. We just need components. Don't throw in a whole opinion of how
the Internet world should look like, and we might start seeing some more
fluctuation in that whole space.

**David Mytton \[00:14:17\]:** Yes, very interesting. I suppose where would you
go today— If you're launching something new, say competing with React, how would
you get developer adoption? I suppose the question is if Netlify was starting
today, how would you go about reaching the right audience?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:14:34\]:** From us from Netlify, again, we really just try
to give you the best tooling, regardless of what front-end framework you're
picking, right? We have a runtime layer specifically adapting to Next. They'll
give you middleware features that are only available in our platform and so on,
right? But if I were to start a new project today, I mean, I would look a lot on
what kind of project I'm building, right?

For example, at Netlify, since the beginning, we always use pretty different
technologies for our main marketing site and our app, right? So our app is a
pure React app, not using any framework, right? It’s actually like React Redux
single-page application. It makes a lot of sense for all of our users,
basically, desktop users or on fast devices. It’s all a logged-in experience,
right? I think that makes sense.

Then our marketing side was always very light JavaScript, originally built with
Google within \[inaudible 00:15:32\]. Today, I might start with something like
Astro for that, right? I think that's one of the things that I would look to. I
think each of these different frameworks have the opportunity of getting really
great at some use cases. But if they try to be great at all of them, there will
just naturally be some more specialized frameworks that gets good at some of
them.

I think Astro is looking like it's building a really great developer experience
around the concept of let’s build content-driven websites with no JavaScript and
few islands of interactivity. There's a lot of websites out there that are
really best realized in that format. SolidJS is starting to look really
interesting for, “Hey, I'm actually looking to build an application.” I think
it's getting a lot of the advantages that the React team is sort of starting to
realize through – we have server components in Suspense \[inaudible 00:16:32\]
and all of that. But while adding a very complex mental model, I think Solid is
starting to show a way to get a lot of those benefits but with a very simple
mental model, where you just have a few core primitives, and everything is sort
of just side effects of those.

But, again, I think there's a little bit of fragmentation about to happen in the
landscape, just because as the reaction gets more opinionated, there's a lot
more opportunities to resimplify for specific use cases and build tools with
simpler mental models.

Then long term, we'll probably see some much more drastic changes. Right now,
what we're seeing happening around generative AI is probably going to change a
lot of how we interface with computers over time, right? It’s already sort of
almost at the edge where you can imagine stitching a few tools together, and you
would be having this kind of conversation with a program, rather than with a
human. I think as that starts to happen, that will start to massively redefine
how we consume content and commerce and so on. And it will probably change a lot
of what it means to build a website. So I wouldn't be surprised if 5, 10 years
from now, the distinction between React and Solid or Next and Gatsby and Astro
is just almost not a relevant thing anymore.

**Jean Yang \[00:17:52\]:** Thank you, Matt. The one thing I wanted to touch on
was I know in the early days of Netlify, you developed this idea that every
developer should be able to very quickly build their own blog on Netlify. This
was something you obsessively stuck with. That was an experience that you told
the team they could never break. I love this idea. And I would love to hear more
about how did you come up with that as the one interaction to focus around. Has
that evolved as Netlify has progressed?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:18:26\]:** Our whole model has evolved a lot over time and
will keep evolving, especially as we're now, I think, about to shift from this
early majority to figuring out how do we really get this into the hands of the
early majority and like only sort of next-generation adopters. But early on, as
we started Netlify as a new product, first of all, we really thought from the
beginning, and played out well, right? We really thought about our journey as
moving in concentric circles, right?

First, we had to meet the sort of core innovators in the space. We really sought
out people that were, at the time, building static site generators. So building
single-page application frameworks and working in specific places where those
were the toolsets and so on to get in front of the people that had already sort
of halfway tried to build their own internal Netlify project by project and make
themselves first adopters, first evangelists, right?

Then next were sort of the real early adopter crowd, the ones that are always
out there, spending their weekends looking for new technologies to learn and
adopt, and driven by constant curiosity, and given their competitive value in
the marketplace as being the ones that always knows what's coming and what the
hot thing is and so on, right? So the next question was how do we reach them? I
think it was a lot about thinking through that kind of developer.

When they are starting a weekend project, what are they going to build? What are
some of the things that they want to build that we can make really easy for them
to actually realize? What's the thing that without us, they might just not build
it, right? We saw an opportunity early on when a lot of the space around this
way of building was around static site generators and so on, right? They’re a
great way for a developer to build a blog.

As a developer, you often want everything to happen in the file system and in
GitHub, right? You don't necessarily like the idea of writing your blog post in
some content UI and so on, versus just writing them in visual code and being
close to the middle. So we saw that as a great starting point, right? Especially
every one of these developers, they’re also very keen on sharing what they
learned over the weekend, and you need a blog for that.

But let's be fair, a lot of us are also very bad at actually getting any blog
post written. So there's a certain tendency that I've done myself up, like
re-architecting your blog over the weekend and writing a blog post about how you
built your blog, then maybe you never get around to writing a lot more blog
posts, but you write that one, right? So we saw that as one of these key things
that could connect to the imagination of a developer and help them actually get
something out in the world.

Something that was also representative of the “Aha!” moment you would get from
Netlify, right? Once you build that, you would get that sense of, “Wow, I just
pushed to get in and my changes are live instantly, right? It took me 30 seconds
to go from finding a site generator to having something live on a URL that I can
share with others, right?” That was such a step change from how the world looked
before that I think anyone that tried that experience also got a sense of,
“Wait, this feels really powerful in general,” right?

Then we could connect that with when that developer is then at work and thinking
through, “Oh, wow. We have a new campaign coming up, right? We need to build a
new website around it. It needs to be ready to handle traffic. We don't know how
much budget the CMO will throw at it, and so on. I've just tried building this
side project, and it was such a superior experience to anything I would get if I
tried building this campaign site with the standard tooling of our company.
Maybe I can get permission from my engineering manager to use Netlify to build
this.” Then we started getting in the company. Then we can start building in
relation, right?

So early on, that was very much the motion. Now, of course, as we are scaling
and going more and more into larger enterprise companies, some of those motions
start changing a bit, and so on, right? But we still want to keep true to our
core of delivering a great experience to any excited weekend adopter that wanted
to go, maybe today not just write a blog, but maybe try out SolidJS and
PlanetScale and build something cool with Deno running at the edge and so on,
right? I can give them a sense of like, “Wait, what? I could set all of that up
in a few seconds and write a globally distributed edge application talking to
your database without doing anything but writing code and pushing it together?”

**David Mytton \[00:23:08\]:** What do you think the data and state story is
there? Is it connecting over, essentially, the internet over HTTPS to something
like PlanetScale or I suppose Neon if you want to use Postgres? But essentially
having the data live somewhere else because that was always a very odd thing
when I was building applications a while ago. We'd have a separate backend with
the database located as close as possible to the application for latency.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:23:33\]:** Yeah. So I think, again, I'm still a pretty big
believer in that at scale, if you go to larger companies and you look at how
they are going to be building stuff, I think, for lack of a better word, this
Jamstack architecture is probably what they're going to go with. The web
developers will be working on the web UI, but they'll probably not be working— I
don't think if you go to those larger companies, if you take some of our
customers like Twilio or DocuSign or Unilever or something, I don't think
they'll suddenly throw their core business data into a globally distributed
database and have their front-end developers access that data directly through
SQL and the edge, right? They’re probably still going to have core API teams
that will probably be working more in languages like Go or Java or C#. In some
cases, maybe Rust, and in some cases, Ruby on Rails and Python and so on,
depending on where they sit, right?

That builds APIs and then they'll probably have teams built around digital
experiences that built applications and websites and e-commerce and mobile
applications that fetches those, right? I think the use case where you will see
web teams building directly on the edge, directly with Neon or PlanetScale or
Cockroach or Fauna, and so on, they’re probably more the use case around
early-stage startups, Greenfield projects, and so on, right?

The larger the company, the more you will start really decoupling that data
layer behind an API that gates access, that makes it feel a lot safer for an
architect to say, “Now, you can just go build mobile apps and web apps and so
on, on top of it. You can’t mess with the data.” So in those cases, I think
we'll probably end up becoming more of a caching story in reality, right? How do
you take data from those APIs and get real edge-caching benefits around it and
make it available to the teams building the web applications in a way that's
also really fast when they're building edge applications? But I don't think it
will be so much of a question of, we're going to move all of our business data
to an edge database.

**David Mytton \[00:25:48\]:** Interesting. So the APIs, I suppose, are what's
talking to the edge and you're still building all the front-end and the
applications using this approach, but the APIs will be there with centralized
data.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:26:00\]:** I think that will be the typical approach. I
think we have seen some of that from Shopify in their Remix acquisition and
their strategy around that, where a lot of projects naively trying to use Remix
will just run into that problem, that data is not at the edge, so they're not
like– So building at the edge then often makes things a lot slower because now
you have like– you're trying to do a bunch of round trips to a database
somewhere else, and it just takes you a long time to really get something real
in front of your users.

But for the Shopify use case, if all you're talking to it, you're just building
a headless UI on top of Shopify’s API, then Shopify’s API is already built with
a global caching layer, and it's really fast globally, right? That starts making
a lot of sense, especially for that kind of e-commerce use case.

Then on our end, part of why we did the Gatsby acquisition is to build out their
product line that they started called codename Valhalla, which is really an idea
of building this content pop, where you can use Gatsby source plugins to define
how do you want to get data out of your different data sources and make it
available to the web developers.

Can we then just have a system that keeps that data layer in sync and gives you
both at build time, but also at the edge and at runtime, very fast data layer
where you can access that data without ever having to do a full round trip to
the actual API and where you can do that in a uniform manner across data sources
that might already be really optimized Shopify’s API or internal data sources.
That might really not be like your old Drupal install or your PIM or whatever
you really try to get data out of and into the UI around, right?

I think that gives us a great potential to help companies solve these problems
of, “How do we let web teams build these kinds of user experiences across a lot
of different data sources, but we get some guarantees that it's always
well-behaved, that we don't suddenly have edge code trying to do a bunch of
round trips and slowing down everything or overwhelming our APIs with dynamic
requests or stuff like that?” Over time, we’ll probably not be the only one
helping companies follow those kinds of patterns.

**Jean Yang \[00:28:19\]:** Thanks, Matt. Another question is have there been
shifts in web and tools that have caused you to rethink some of your roadmap or
goals? If so, what have those been?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:28:32\]:** I mean, it's a fast-changing space and
landscape. So we've always had to stay on top of it, right? Today, we have a
whole pillar of engineering called the framework pillar that have people just
constantly making sure that anything that framework authors come up with is
integrated into our way of deploying and operating and running and so on,
right,? Some of that becomes more reactive than proactive, and some of it is
more proactive than reactive.

Some of the things – I would say that we're seeing a lot of interest in running
sort of streaming, rendering at the edge that we have— Initially, when we built
our edge functions, in the first iteration of that, we weren't thinking that
much about that use case. We were thinking more about simpler decision-making at
the edge, like routing decisions, personalization decisions, authentication
decisions, and so on.

Now, we're seeing that layer. When we sort of retooled that layer and launched
our current version of edge functions at the start of last year, that was really
around, okay, we see that people will want to build full streaming, rendering
services at the edge that feels a bit more than applications and that need a bit
more weight.

I think, over time, people will also discover some of the complexities of that,
and there'll be some split between when you want to do it and when you don't
want to do it. But it was definitively one of those where we said, “Okay, we
need to really be ready for this and really be a great platform for this, even
if that wasn't at first how we envisioned for that to go.”

**David Mytton \[00:30:07\]:** Yes, that makes sense. Well, before we wrap up
then, I have two lightning questions for you. The first one is what interesting
DevTools or just tools generally are you playing around with at the moment?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:30:19\]:** So right now, I'm playing a bit around with both
SolidJS and Astro and the ActivityPub protocol. It's been really cool to see. I
mean, at Netlify, we always had this idea of making the web better because the
web is sort of the open platform that doesn't have any single corporate owner,
right? I think a lot of people really got a sense of what that meant with the
Twitter acquisition and everything that happened there.

When your platform has one owner, that owner can also suddenly change their mind
and go do other stuff that you had hoped for, right? I think that's reenergized
a lot of the landscape around building federated social services, both in the
Mastodon landscape and in tools like Nostr and so on. That's something I find
really, really interesting and find connects well with some of the roots of what
the web means. So I'm playing a bit around with that. Then, of course, as
everybody else, I'm playing around with the new generative AI tools.

**David Mytton \[00:31:18\]:** I really hope RSS comes back. I'm always annoyed
when I see a blog, and there's no RSS feed.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:31:25\]:** True, true. But I think there will also be a lot
of interesting potential of making it really easy to add ActivityPub federation
through your personal blog, for example. What would it take to just make it
really easy to just turn on, and you don't have to run some multiuser Mastodon
instance? You could just deploy a blog, but have it interact with that
ecosystem. Why shouldn't that be trivial?

**David Mytton \[00:31:50\]:** Yes. Then, finally, what's your current tech
setup? What hardware and software do you use every day?

**Matt Biilmann \[00:31:56\]:** At home, I'm on an old MacBook, not even the
modern M1s. I'm not fully up-to-date there yet. In general, I always like to try
to stick to relatively simple tools. I've never liked tools that overcomplicate
things too much. As a developer, I've always looked for simplicity and tools
that give long-term reliability over a lot of complexity for short-term
advantages, right? Typically, all of my tool sets are pretty basic in that way.

**David Mytton \[00:32:31\]:** Well, unfortunately, that's all we've got time
for. Thanks for joining us, Matt.

**Jean Yang \[00:32:36\]:** Yes, thank you. This is great.

**Matt Biilmann \[00:32:36\]:** Yes, thank you. Thanks for having me.

**David Mytton \[00:32:40\]:** Thanks for listening to the Console DevTools
Podcast. Please let us know what you think on Twitter. I'm @davidmytton and you
can follow @consoledotdev. Don't forget to subscribe and rate us in your podcast
player. If you're playing around with or building any interesting DevTools,
please get in touch. Our email is in the show notes. See you next time.

\[END\]

</BoxCollapsible>
