---
title: Serverless databases
who: Monica Sarbu
whoLink: https://twitter.com/monicasarbu
what: We start with the philosophy behind serverless databases, why developers
    shouldn't need to think about relational databases, search, and analytics,
    whether the performance hit of accessing a database over HTTP matters, and
    how database branching works.
season: 4
episode: 10
date: 2023-06-29T06:00:00Z
duration: "29:02"
episodeURL: https://cdn.simplecast.com/audio/10488ddf-3ca4-4300-9391-c2967d806334/episodes/76eda8cc-b16e-47f7-b598-e235f466f74b/audio/2c230867-fdbf-4396-a67b-c83ddfd3ff57/default_tc.mp3
draft: false
summary: "Serverless databases - a devtools discussion with Monica Sarbu (Xata).
    Console Devtools Podcast: Episode 10 (Season 4)."
metaDescription: "Serverless databases - a devtools discussion with Monica Sarbu
    (Xata). Console Devtools Podcast: Episode 10 (Season 4)."
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
isSubpage: podcast-episode
pageType: podcast-episode
customPageStyle: true
xlViewport:
    largeText: true
topImg1Src: /img/podcast/xata-monica-sarbu.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/www.xata.io.png
ogImg: /img/podcast/podcast-cover.jpeg
twitterCard: https://player.simplecast.com/76eda8cc-b16e-47f7-b598-e235f466f74b
authorName: David Mytton
authorURL: https://davidmytton.blog/start
authorImg: /img/david.jpg
authorBio: is Co-founder & CEO of Console. In 2009, he founded and was CEO of Server
    Density, a SaaS cloud monitoring startup acquired in 2018 by edge compute
    and cyber security company, StackPath. He is also researching sustainable
    computing in the Department of Engineering Science at the University of
    Oxford, and has been a developer for 15+ years.
author2Name: Jean Yang
author2URL: https://twitter.com/jeanqasaur
author2Img: /img/podcast/akita-jean-yang-profile.jpg
author2Bio: is CEO of Akita Software. Jean earned her PhD in software correctness and
    programming language design from MIT and then became a professor in computer
    science at Carnegie Mellon University before she started Akita to build the
    future of API observability.
---

### Episode notes

In this episode, we speak with Monica Sarbu, CEO of [Xata](https://xata.io/). We
start with the philosophy behind serverless databases, why developers shouldn't
need to think about relational databases, search, and analytics, whether the
performance hit of accessing a database over HTTP matters, and how database
branching works. She also talks about Xata’s plans for a global database, the
company’s focus on UI developers, and what other databases are doing wrong.

**Things mentioned:**

-   [Xata](https://xata.io/)
-   [tupu.io](http://tupu.io)
-   [Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/)
-   [PlanetScale](https://planetscale.com/)
-   [Quicker serverless Postgres
    connections](https://neon.tech/blog/quicker-serverless-postgres)
-   [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/)
-   [Airtable](https://www.airtable.com/)
-   [Xata ChatGPT integration](https://xata.io/chatgpt)
-   [Apple Mac](https://www.apple.com/mac/)

<RichTitle tag="h5" icon={{ group: "generic", name: "future-head" }} text="About Monica Sarbu" />

Monica Sarbu is the Founder and CEO of [Xata](https://xata.io/), a serverless
database built for modern development. Prior to that, she worked on an
open-source monitoring solution called Packetbeat which was acquired by
[Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/) in 2015. She is also the co-founder of
[tupu.io](http://tupu.io), a non-profit initiative that offers free mentorship
to women, people of color, and other underrepresented groups in the tech
industry.

### Highlights

<PodcastEpisodeClipping atTime="05:14">

**Monica Sarbu:** The idea of a single API is that because, like I said,
this scenario happens in every company out there; when they start a new web
application, they need to build this data platform internally. My thinking was
why \[does\] every company out there need to reinvent the wheel when we can
provide all this functionality: database, search functionality, analytics, time
series data as well, and under a single API? This was the main purpose of having
a single API.

</PodcastEpisodeClipping>

<PodcastEpisodeClipping atTime="25:12">

**Monica Sarbu:** I've seen that there are so many companies out there that are
building their data platform on top of Airtable and they are developers. The
reason behind that was that it's easier to use, and they had– While I was
speaking with so many companies, I've seen so many hacks because they had
hundreds of Airtables. They were synchronizing between them because you cannot
really store a lot of data in one Airtable. My idea is — especially with
serverless applications — that when you're building a web application, you have
most of your logic in a lambda function so you cannot really use any of these
databases and services that are out there, right? So Airtable was an easy-to-use
approach but Airtable was not really meant to be built as a database. I've seen
that there is a huge opportunity to build something that is as easy to use as
Airtable but as scalable as a traditional database and also powerful as a
traditional database.

</PodcastEpisodeClipping>

<BoxCollapsible expanded title="Full transcript"
  classes={["podcast-transcript"]}>

**David Mytton \[00:00:04\]:** Welcome to another episode of the Console
DevTools Podcast. I'm David Mytton, CEO of Console.dev, a free weekly email
digest of the best tools and beta releases for experienced developers.

**Jean Yang \[00:00:15\]:** And I'm Jean Yang, CEO of Akita Software, the
fastest and easiest way to understand your APIs.

**David Mytton \[00:00:22\]:** In this episode, Jean and I speak with Monica
Sarbu, CEO of Xata. We start with the philosophy behind serverless databases,
why developers shouldn't need to think about relational databases, search, and
analytics, whether the performance hit of accessing a database over HTTP
matters, and how database branching works. We're keeping this to 30 minutes. So
let's get started.

**David Mytton \[00:00:45\]:** We're here with Monica Sarbu. Let's start with a
brief background. Tell us a little bit about what you're currently doing and how
you got here.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:00:52\]:** Hey. Hi, everyone. Thanks for inviting me. So I
am currently the CEO and Founder of a company called Xata, and we are building a
database company. The idea of the company came up unexpectedly for me. I can
share a bit more about this. Before that, my first company where I was building
an open-source monitoring solution was called Packetbeat and was acquired by
Elastic in 2015.

**Jean Yang \[00:01:17\]:** That's great. Thanks, Monica. Before we get into the
specifics of what you're building at Xata, we'd love to chat about the
philosophy behind serverless databases. Let's start with why you think
serverless is the right model for data? Or even what is a serverless database?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:01:33\]:** Yes. So I think databases today are really
complicated, and they leave quite a lot of things for developers to worry about.
Even if you are using a database, a managed database service provided by one of
these big cloud companies, you still have a lot of things to do. So you have to
configure and create a new instance. You have to worry about how much CPU memory
I need to have. You have to worry about replications, scaling. You have to worry
about setting up monitoring. You also have to worry about things like how I'm
going to do the schema migrations and things like this.

With platforms like Netlify and Vercel that basically are serverless platforms
and also with growth for serverless applications, it becomes more of a need of
having a serverless database as well. Currently, with the current approach of
databases, this is a bit hard to achieve.

**David Mytton \[00:02:31\]:** It’s more than just serverless databases, right?
You're building a combination of relational databases, a search engine,
analytics as a single API. Why are you building all of these things into a
single product?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:02:45\]:** So I think nowadays, more than web application,
they require you to have more than a database. The way it happens is that the
first thing when you start a new application, you have to decide what kind of
database you need to use. Then as you add more functionality to your
application, for example, search because nowadays, all applications, web
application have search integrated, then you have to add another service,
something like Elasticsearch, for example. You have to synchronize the data from
your database to Elasticsearch. This probably requires you to have a Kafka in
between.

It’s a lot of things that you need to set up just for having this particular
feature. Also, as your application grows, you probably also have to add caching.
Also, you have to know because currently databases, they support very basic data
types, I will say. But usually, more than applications require more advanced
data types like arrays, images, attachments, JSON, and things like this.

This is something that I got the same like we were building this mentorship
platform at the beginning of the pandemic. It’s called Tupu.io, and we are
offering a free mentorship for underrepresented groups in tech.

When we were building this mentorship platform, we realized that there isn't any
database out there that can fulfill all these requirements. So we didn't really
have higher requirements. We needed a relational database where we can store the
relations between mentors and mentees. We also needed a way to be able to search
as a mentee for the right mentor.

For example, if you are in marketing, you want to search for a mentor in
marketing. We also want you to be fully managed because we want you to spend as
much time as possible on building the monitoring platform, not building the
infrastructure. This is how, basically, I realized there is a huge opportunity
on the market, and this made me decide to start Xata. Because web applications,
they need more than just a database.

**Jean Yang \[00:05:01\]:** Thank you, Monica. That sounds very, very
compelling. Next, I'd like to dig into why is it important to provide this under
a single API. What's the vision there?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:05:13\]:** Yeah, so basically, the idea of a single API is
that because, like I said, this scenario happens in every company out there.
When they start a new web application, they need to build this data platform
internally. My thinking was why every company out there needs to reinvent the
wheel when we can provide all this functionality, database, search
functionality, analytics, time series data as well, and under a single API? This
was the main purpose of having a single API.

But also, having a single API allows us to build functionality that other
database services that provide PostgreSQL as a service, they stick to the SQL
wire protocol. They cannot have, for example, because we control the schema. For
example, we can show the user the logical schema, and we can have the physical
schema from PostgreSQL. We can have it basically hidden by the user. So we can
have hidden columns that allows us to build functionality like zero-time
migrations that others can’t, right? That's also an important aspect.

Also, in terms of data types, we can provide more advanced data types than the
basic ones that a database can provide. So now, for example, we are working on
providing images, attachments. Something like this we can easily provide by
having a single API.

Another advantage of having a single API is that you as a developer, you don't
have to learn different SQL if you have to interact with the database like HTTP
if you have to interact with this and other services. So basically, you cannot
have a uniform way how you can interact with your data.

**David Mytton \[00:07:11\]:** Is there an argument to say that separating all
these is the best way to do it because you're going to be able to choose the
best product for each thing? How do you tackle that when someone says, “Well, I
want to use each of these products individually.”?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:07:24\]:** Yes. That's a very good question. So we didn't
really get this question from our customers. I think it's – of course, we could,
for example, we are using internally Elasticsearch. So we consider the idea of
giving direct access to Elasticsearch. We are also building a SQL proxy in order
for us to also speak the SQL protocol companies or developers are used to. So a
secret protocol, it's something that developers are still using, and it's easier
for them to migrate from existing applications to something to say that we're
just using our own API.

**David Mytton \[00:08:09\]:** Right. So you're building an abstraction on top
of these individual technologies. But because they're often used together,
you're able to build interesting ways to integrate them and solve a lot of the
things that developers would have to build themselves otherwise.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:08:22\]:** Exactly. Yes.

**Jean Yang \[00:08:24\]:** Yes, that makes a lot of sense. It sounds like a
portable ORM that has more than what a normal ORM provides, is that accurate?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:08:34\]:** So we are not really doing only ORMs. I will say
we are building a database, plus ORM, if you want. So basically, companies,
usually, they use the database. For example, they use PlanetScale, and they use
Prisma as an ORM. Basically, we have everything under the same roof. We also
have our own SDKs and, basically, different ways how you can interact with the
product through the UI, but also with the CLI and also for the SDKs, like I
said.

**Jean Yang \[00:09:07\]:** A follow-up question I have is did you consider
keeping an existing database, say SQL, and just building the API layer? What was
the motivation to build everything?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:09:19\]:** Yeah, I think it's very important to offer a very
good developer experience to the users and our goal was to build innovation and
try to change the way developers work with data. Because, usually, I mean,
currently it's very stressful, I think, for developers to work with data. They
have to do a lot of workarounds. It's very difficult to do migrations.

When we started the company, we thought about how we can provide the ideal
scenario for the developer, how to allow them to not think about building the
data platform that they need to build a data application but concentrate on
building the product itself. Because, usually, for example, UI developers, they
cannot really build web applications end-to-end by themselves. They need to rely
on a back-end team to provide them with the right APIs and also, on the data
platform team, to provide them with all the services, glue them together, and
provide all the functionality that they need to build a web application. So our
goal was to give superpowers to UI developers to allow them to build end-to-end
applications by using Xata.

**David Mytton \[00:10:40\]:** The serverless model makes sense because no one
should ever run their own database, right?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:10:46\]:** Yes.

**David Mytton \[00:10:47\]:** Yes. I suppose people are used to using RDS from
Amazon and the other similar cloud products. It's still the database instance.
So you get access to Amazon's managing the underlying server that it's running
on, but you still have to manage Postgres. Whereas, I suppose your argument and
I suppose the likes of Neon do Postgres and also PlanetScale for MySQL, they’re
saying that they were going to manage everything for you?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:11:10\]:** Exactly, yes.

**David Mytton \[00:11:11\]:** Okay. In terms of access to SQL then, are you
abstracting that completely? You said you're currently building that out because
it is a common interface. Developers are used to using that.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:11:22\]:** Yes. So we are building just a proxy in front, so
a SQL proxy in front. But we want to encourage users to use our API. Because
with our API, you can get more functionality than with just a basic SQL, right?
You can get extended data types. You can get zero-time migrations. You can get
branching functionality. So you can get much more over the API.

**David Mytton \[00:11:50\]:** How does the branching functionality work? That's
something I saw for the first time, I think, with PlanetScale. The developer
experience there was like doing a code pull request on the database. Can you
explain how that works and the underlying technology behind it?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:12:05\]:** So basically, every time you create a branch, you
create a new database. What's interesting is that we have zero cold starts when
we create a branch, and you have the option to basically copy a subset of the
data from the main branch to your current branch or transform the data if, for
example, for privacy reasons, you don't want to copy all the data.

It’s very important when you test your, let’s say, new branch. It’s important,
you don't really need all the data from the main database. You just need a
subset to be able to test with that. Then what's also interesting there,
basically, you can do migrations, and we offer zero-time migrations.

**Jean Yang \[00:12:51\]:** So, Monica, a follow-up question. Something I'm
wondering about is from building high throughput applications in the past, you
previously want the data to live close to the application. But these days, a lot
of this is happening across HTTP REST. So this sounds a lot slower. Are there
things that you have to do to mitigate this? Is this just the future? Do you see
this changing?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:13:16\]:** Yes. I mean, a counter-example is DynamoDB that
is functioning over HTTP. I think it's a good example because it has a high
throughput but a low latency. Basically, with databases, with PostgreSQL, MySQL,
wire protocol, it’s faster once you have a connection. But for serverless
applications, you have to do a connection every time. So then it's slower than
HTTP.

I think this model, I mean, it's interesting that PostgreSQL is there for like
40 years or so. But I think with serverless application and with this approach,
then it's not a good fit anymore.

**Jean Yang \[00:13:59\]:** That makes sense.

**David Mytton \[00:14:01\]:** So I suppose those applications, do you think
there's going to be a development in how connection pooling is done for
serverless? I think the team at Neon recently posted a blog post about this and
how they have been able to reduce the number of hops in a connection request
through some really interesting optimizations. Do you think the platforms will
do that, like Vercel and Netlify? Or do you think it's just an inherent
limitation of how serverless works?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:14:28\]:** Yeah, that’s a very good question. Yeah, I think
it's still up in the air. I think many companies are trying to figure out, for
example, also how Edge will work. We are also exploring with this as well, so I
don't know how it will be.

**David Mytton \[00:14:45\]:** Interesting. I suppose when you say “edge”, I
mean, you could put a copy of the database in every single edge location, so the
user is just going – doesn't need to go back to that central location.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:14:57\]:** Yes. I mean, the way we do because we also have
edge workers and, for example, the way we do it is just that you have the option
to cache with your query. Basically, we have these edge workers that you can
deploy in your Cloudflare Workers. This is useful for applications, for example,
in something like Hacker News that most of your users from that region are
basically calling the same query. Let's say the main page of Hacker News or so.

Another example can be an e-commerce website where you have, for example, a deal
page or something like an offering, something like this that many people will
look kind of query the same page. I think it's useful for those cases. But, yes,
not for all the scenarios will work.

**David Mytton \[00:15:50\]:** Right. So do you think there'll be tiers of
query? So certain queries will be resolved by the Edge, but other queries will
have to go back to the central primary instance, and those will just be slower?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:16:02\]:** Yes, yes. I mean, this is something that it's
interesting because there were quite a lot of videos recently about how we're
going to solve the problem with edge. I think there isn't any answer yet. So we
are also planning to build a global database. Currently, you have to choose the
region where you deploy, but I think it will be an interesting challenge how
we're going to solve this.

**David Mytton \[00:16:27\]:** Can you say anything about what you've thought
about for that global database so far? I suppose the challenge is replication
lag. Is there anything that you can reveal at the moment?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:16:36\]:** Yeah, I mean, it's not fully baked, let's say. So
we didn't even start working on this, but the idea is that you're going to have
a write replica, one, and then you'll have a lot of read replicas closer to your
users.

**Jean Yang \[00:16:51\]:** Monica, how is this working behind the scenes at
Xata? What are you building on top of? What building blocks have been the most
useful?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:16:59\]:** Yes. So this was an evolution. So we went back
and forth since we started the company. What we knew is that we didn't want to
start a database from scratch so we decided to build a platform on top of
existing technologies, and we decided to build on top of Postgres SQL and
Elasticsearch.

Of course, we are using Kafka to replicate the data from the database to
Elasticsearch. In the future, also, we plan to add Redis. We are also using a
DynamoDB a bit. But, yes, that's mainly what we are using now.

**Jean Yang \[00:17:34\]:** That makes a lot of sense. Thank you.

**David Mytton \[00:17:37\]:** Do you think there will come a time when you have
to write your own components, like your own data store or storage layer or
something like that?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:17:44\]:** Yes. I think that's a very interesting question.
I think it's important for us to put out there all the functionality, all the
features that we had in mind and see what is the interest from the users. Then
along the way, I think it will also be – I'm sure it will be a time when we're
going to see if it's worth starting a database from scratch or rewrite some of
the parts in order to be more efficient. But, yes, currently, we are trying to
concentrate on the functionality that we are building, but yeah.

**David Mytton \[00:18:18\]:** Right. They're all open-source projects, I
suppose. So you can always contribute a small part of the code or build it out
and then submit it upstream, just to keep those projects improving, so you don't
have to start from scratch?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:18:31\]:** Yes, definitely.

**Jean Yang \[00:18:33\]:** Yeah. Okay. Well, so Monica, one thing that would be
fun to dig into is what does developer experience mean to you? Because for
databases, it's typically meant something potentially different than for
app-level tools.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:18:45\]:** Yes, definitely. I think for me, a good developer
experience is not that when you have to spend two days in reading documentation
in order to figure out how to use a database and also learn about database
internals. So a developer experience, basically, in my opinion, is something
that provides all the functionality that you need. So you don't have to worry
about building the infrastructure yourself, manage the database yourself, and
try to concentrate more on building the product because, in the end, this is
what your user sees, they see features in your product, not how much resources
you spend on underlying technology, on like the data platform, as they call it,
right? So I think this is important. Getting starting experience and
documentation is very important as well.

**Jean Yang \[00:19:35\]:** Do you have any views on database developer
experience that you think are controversial? What are other databases doing
wrong?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:19:42\]:** I mean, most of the databases out there, they
don't really put a lot of accent on make it easy to configure. In my opinion, if
you have to write a SQL query, that's not a good developer experience, even if
you are a developer, right? Having something to visually manage your data, your
configuration is much more pleasant.

So in my opinion, just writing SQL queries, I think it's problematic and, for
example, for this reason, right? So I've seen this at Elastic when I was working
in Elastic. Even more senior engineers, they're struggling in building the query
tools to fetch specific type of data. Elasticsearch was not a SQL that they have
to write. For this reason, we have a spreadsheet-like UI where you can basically
filter the data visually, the data that you are interested in. Then you have an
option and get \[inaudible 00:20:42\], and then basically gives you the code
that you need in multiple programming languages, the code that you need to use
in your application. So this way, it hopefully, makes it faster for UI
developers to build their application.

**Jean Yang \[00:20:58\]:** Well, yes, that makes a lot of sense that a UI
developer would want a different interface for their developer experience.

**David Mytton \[00:21:05\]:** To what extent have you looked at how things
change as the database scales? My experience, a lot of things are different when
you go from maybe executing 10 or 20 queries every couple of minutes to 200,000
or 300,000 writes a second. That's when databases start breaking and you've got
to get into the docs and understand how to tweak it. How are you thinking about
that so that developers just don't have to think about it?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:21:31\]:** Our goal is to abstract this to the user, so they
don't have to worry about how to optimize the queries and things like this.
We're not doing anything at the moment in this direction, but I think that's our
value proposition.

So from the types of customers that we are targeting, at least for now, is we
are not targeting enterprise companies, we are more targeting, of course,
individual contributors, medium-sized type of companies, companies that don't
have enough resources that they want to spend in building the data platform
themselves, big enterprises like eBay or so. They don't want to have a solution
in the cloud, first of all. But also, they have different requirements. So we
are concentrating on in terms of user more medium-sized type of companies.
Someone said, "for the rest of us”.

**David Mytton \[00:22:29\]:** Yes. Databases for the rest of us.

**Jean Yang \[00:22:33\]:** Databases for the 99% of developers.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:22:35\]:** Yes.

**David Mytton \[00:22:37\]:** I suppose that's why you've got your spreadsheet
UI so that non-technical users can explore the database.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:22:43\]:** Even if you are a developer, you would like to
visualize the data and interact with your data over a spreadsheet-like UI. But
also, I know there are a few developers, for example, they will prefer to
interact over a command-line interface over SDK. So that's why we provide
multiple ways.

Our goal is that our persona that we have in mind at the beginning is to have
developers and from that category, we are concentrating on UI developers because
we think that we can have a bigger impact, and we can give superpowers to UI
developers to build end-to-end applications that they were not able to build
before.

Then also longer term, we are also thinking to open this to non-technical
people. For example, imagine a support team that would like, for example, to
change a coupon of a user. They will have a different view. Probably they will
be able to access only a few columns, and exchange a coupon or something like
that.

So different personas require different types of features, and that's why we
decided to do them step by step. Our idea is that we’re going to concentrate
first on developers, whose idea that developers will convince non-technical
people from the same organizations to use us for other use cases.

**Jean Yang \[00:24:11\]:** Cool. That makes a lot of sense. So, Monica, I
really like your story of discovering when you're building this mentoring
network that there are this database needs that people have when spinning up a
project. How did you know that there were other software teams with the same
problems? Was this the first time you came upon this problem? Or you had seen it
before? You had heard about it before?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:24:33\]:** Yes. I think it's worth saying a bit of
background. So my entire career before that, I was building monitoring solution
first. I was building a monitoring solution for telecom, then more generic for
developers. Then when I started this nonprofit organization, we realized there
isn't a database solution that can fulfill all our needs.

Then we decided to build a platform on top of Airtable. Why Airtable? Because it
was just easier to use, because it provided us with a spreadsheet-like UI that
we can use to do the matching in a visual way because you don't want a command
line interface to do the matching between a mentor and mentee.

Then I've seen that there are so many companies out there that are building
their data platform on top of Airtable, and they are developers. The reason
behind that was that it's easier to use, and they had – while I was speaking
with so many companies, I've seen so many hacks because they had hundreds of
Airtables. They were synchronizing between them because you cannot really store
a lot of data in one Airtable.

My idea is — especially with serverless applications — that when you're building
a web application, you have most of your logic in a lambda function. So you
cannot really use any of these databases and services that are out there, right?
So Airtable was an easy-to-use approach.

But Airtable was not really meant to be built as a database. I've seen that
there is a huge opportunity to build something that is as easy to use as
Airtable but as scalable as a traditional database and also powerful as a
traditional database. So this was the initial motivation. I didn't really have
in mind to start the second company, but I've seen there is a huge opportunity
on the market and then decided to start a new company.

**Jean Yang \[00:26:29\]:** That makes sense. I guess the question I have is how
did you get the conviction that Airtable wouldn't subsume you?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:26:37\]:** I mean, it depends on the project, right? For us
is the mentorship platform that we are building, we are not very successful,
right? So we didn't really reach the limitation of Airtables. But other
companies, any other product that you are building that has a low usage of
users, you basically immediately reach the limitation of Airtable.

**Jean Yang \[00:27:01\]:** That makes a lot of sense.

**David Mytton \[00:27:03\]:** Well, before we wrap up then, I have two
lightning questions for you. So the first is what interesting DevTools or tools,
in general, are you playing around with at the moment?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:27:12\]:** Yes. So we are experienced with OpenAI. Recently,
we launched this integration with OpenAI and the use case that we are very
excited about. It looks like many of our customers as well that we can provide
the search functionality and ChatGPT on top of your documentation, which makes
it easier for you to find in your documentation without just crawling and
looking and just ask the chat what you're looking for. So I think other
companies approach us because they want to have the same approach with their
documentation.

**David Mytton \[00:27:49\]:** Right. Then what is your current tech setup? What
hardware and software do you use every day?**Monica Sarbu \[00:27:55\]:** In
terms of the software, so we are building a solution. So on the backend, it’s
written in Go and front end is React, Next.js, TypeScript. Then we also use
Chakra UI.

**Jean Yang \[00:28:09\]:** Cool.

**David Mytton \[00:28:09\]:** Okay. Then you personally, what's your computer
setup or your laptop? Are you on Mac, Windows, Linux?

**Monica Sarbu \[00:28:17\]:** Yes. I used to be on Linux until 15 years ago
when I moved to Mac. Since then, I'm only on Mac.

**David Mytton \[00:28:26\]:** Awesome. Well, unfortunately, that's all we've
got time for. Thanks for joining us, Monica.

**Monica Sarbu \[00:28:30\]:** Yes. Thanks for having me.

**David Mytton \[00:28:32\]:** Thanks for listening to the Console DevTools
Podcast. Please let us know what you think on Twitter. I'm @davidmytton and you
can follow @consoledotdev. Don't forget to subscribe and rate us in your podcast
player. If you're playing around with or building any interesting DevTools,
please get in touch. Our email is in the show notes. See you next time.

\[END\]

</BoxCollapsible>
