---
title: Interview with Eran Bibi, Firefly
who: Eran Bibi
role: CPO
org: Firefly
what: Cloud asset management.
tags: ["Cloud"]
date: 2022-07-14T12:00:00Z
draft: false
headerType: fixed
summary: Interview with Eran Bibi, CPO, Firefly
isPage: interviews
topImg1Src: /img/interviews/eran-bibi-firefly-profile.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/www.gofirefly.io.svg
ogImg: /img/interviews/eran-bibi-firefly-desk.jpg
---

### What is Firefly? Why did you build it?

[Firefly](https://www.gofirefly.io/) is a startup company we founded one year
ago as a cloud asset management tool for DevOps, engineers, and cloud
engineering teams. It allows you to get a full visibility about what you have on
your multi-cloud, multi-account ecosystem, and then helps you to manage
everything as code automatically, detect drifts and enforce policies.

I have been doing DevOps for more than 10 years and one of the main challenges
is that the landscape of tooling is fragmented. When you need to manage so many
components and there is a constant shortage of talent, it becomes very
challenging to be in control of everything. Moreover, there are a lot of great
tools out there that are solving certain aspects of cloud management, such as
FinOps, Security, or Governance, but there were few tools that solved all the
complexities of cloud and infrastructure management. Firefly is solving that
kind of problem, giving everything in a single platform and allowing you to make
sure that everything is in accordance with the best practices - it allows you to
regain control over your entire cloud footprint.

A lot of the benefits that Firefly provides is around automated tasks and
essentially doing more with existing resources. For example, if you have a
certain environment and you would like to manage it in a modern way, e.g
infrastructure-as-code, one of the options, without Firefly, is basically
creating that environment from scratch and writing a code template to provision
that environment, which can take a lot of time and human errors. Firefly
discovers the environment and provides you the code in an automated way. So
instead of putting in the time and effort to learn the environment and code it,
Firefly gives you visibility and auto-generates code that is relevant for the
environment - it shortens the time that it takes to  write everything in IaC,
allowing Cloud and DevOps teams to focus more on innovation and shorten
time-to-production .

### What does a "day in the life" look like for you?

As a co-founder and Chief Product Officer, I have the responsibility of doing
product and product management, making sure that the engineering team has
everything it needs in order to deliver the software. Moreover I take ownership
of all of the sprint ceremony, but there is also a higher level of duties, such
as making sure we are scaling the company and its culture. I'm also investing a
lot of time to learn about the usage of the customers, what is their day-to-day
and what is the next step in the product. I spend a lot of time brainstorming
about the greater vision of how Firefly can be in a few years and what kind of
other pains we can address with that platform.

### What is the team structure around Firefly?

We are around 30 people as of today and constantly growing. We have a relatively
thin management layer consisting of myself, my partners, and a few VPs and
directors; Similarly to other startups in our stage, the majority of the company
are software engineers in the R&D department.

### How did you first get into software development?

I've been playing with computers since I was a child. I think I got my first
computer when I was nine or ten years old. I’ve always been curious about the
underlying components of the interface. I used to open the computer and play
with its parts and learn what is memory, what is a CPU. I started at a very
early stage and when the internet came to our life, I had the opportunity to
explore and learn even more.

During my mandatory service in the Israeli Defense Forces, I was a system
administrator in one of the units. It expanded my knowledge in operating
systems,networking,service and stuff like that. But when I completed my service,
I was more curious about how to build software, and how to code. I had the
opportunity to have my first job as a software engineer, when cloud was only
introduced. From there it was natural for me to do the shift to DevOps, which is
a combination of software engineering, operations, and IT stuff, which I was
already familiar with. And I've been doing it for the last 10 years.

When I was focused mainly on DevOps, I was working in Python, before that it was
Perl scripting, but I have also experimented with web development, mainly in
PHP. As an infrastructure guy, I really like shell scripting, so I'm doing it as
well, but I think my favorite language of all is Python.

### What's the tech stack for Firefly?

Most of the services are written in Golang, and for the front end we are using
VueJS. We are trying to build everything on top of Kubernetes - every service is
basically a Kubernetes deployment and we have a few serverless functions for
certain type of jobs, but most of the engineers here are cloud engineers that
know how to build SaaS offerings on top of AWS, so we try to leverage everything
that is managed by AWS, like the data stores and other kind of streaming
services.

### What is the most interesting development challenge you've faced working on Firefly?

I think the most of the challenges we face are related to scaling, like how to
make sure the stuff that we are building right now is ready for the next big
customer that is stressing our application and making sure the SLAs and the
experience of the users will remain the same. There is a lot of focus in
engineering on making sure everything is scalable and putting the right controls
and monitoring to make sure we are on top of everything that is happening.

### What is the most interesting tech tool/product/project/thing are you playing around with at the moment?

We are building a lot of internal applications using a SaaS tool called Retool.
This is a wonderful solution for us that allows us to build applications with
low code and no code to manage Firefly. In the previous placeI used to work,
there was a lot of effort invested creating those internal portals. When we
discovered Retool, we started leveraging it and we saw that it was very
user-friendly. The value that we are getting without writing a lot of code, just
with drag and dropping stuff and connecting integrations, is wonderful.

### Describe your computer hardware setup

I'm using a MacBook Pro and to be honest, I'm relatively new to Mac - this is
the first time that I'm using a Mac, before that I was mainly using a PC with
Linux. I think what is unique about my setup is my mouse, that is a trackball.
I've been using a trackball for many years - it's perfect for me, but if anyone
sitting next to me tries to use it, they always struggle.

### Describe your computer software setup

**OS:** macOS.

**Browser:** Chrome.

**Email:** Gmail.

**Chat:** Slack.

**IDE:** VS Code.

**Source control:** GitHub.

### Describe your desk setup

I have an ordinary desk with a fabulous desk pad with some very nice designs on
it. I also like to put some small dolls or giveaways I got from certain
conferences I attended or spoke at, e.g Kubecon, HashiConf, re:invent, etc.
Besides that it's a simple setup.

<ImageProvider center src="/img/interviews/eran-bibi-firefly-desk.jpg" alt="The desk of Eran Bibi, Firefly" />

### When coding

Daytime or nighttime? Night.

Tea or coffee? Coffee.

Silence or music? Music.

### What non-tech activities do you like to do?

I really like to go to music festivals, specifically psytrance, and techno and
stuff like that.

### Find out more

[Firefly](https://www.gofirefly.io/) is a cloud asset management tool. It was
featured as an "Interesting Tool" in the [Console newsletter](/) on 21 Jul 2022.
This interview was conducted on 14 Jul 2022.
