---
title: Interview with Adam Berman, Semgrep
who: Adam Berman
role: Lead Product Engineer
org: Semgrep
what: Vulnerability analysis.
tags: ["Security", "Dependency Management"]
date: 2022-09-29T12:00:00Z
draft: false
headerType: fixed
summary: Interview with Adam Berman, Lead Product Engineer, Semgrep.
isPage: interviews
topImg1Src: /img/interviews/semgrep-adam-berman-profile.jpeg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/semgrep.dev.png
ogImg: /img/interviews/semgrep-adam-berman-desk.jpg
---

### What is Semgrep Supply Chain?

[Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/) is a code scanning tool. It's able to work on a
number of different languages, and the underlying technology is open source. The
primary use cases are around security, and its superpower is that it's easy for
folks to write rules really fast. Semgrep is like a spell check for code - you
can run it in your development environment and get the feedback quickly.

Hearing from security engineers about what problems they face, supply chain
security and vulnerability management is top of mind for everybody. No one wants
to be tomorrow's headline news story. It's not just about the reputational
damage, it's also about these common attack vectors. The rate of disclosure of
vulnerabilities is going up, attackers need to be less sophisticated, so it’s
becoming easier because mature exploits are circulated all over the web. We also
hear that existing tools aren't very useful. They surface a lot of
vulnerabilities and the vulnerabilities are frequently not exploitable, take a
lot of time to triage, and are difficult to upgrade. Difficulty of an upgrade is
something that you're going to face eventually. But we found that security teams
need to do this frontline triage work to identify which vulnerabilities present
real security issues.

Whenever you hear someone doing a repeatable process over and over and over, you
start thinking how can we automate this? We started to realize that Semgrep’s
static analysis engine could be a huge advantage. Determining if you're using a
package that has a vulnerability is pretty simple from a technical perspective -
you scan a lockfile and check the packages against a database of known
vulnerable versions - the difficulty is knowing whether you’re using the
vulnerable code or not, and thus if you can potentially use the package safely.

That’s what we can do with [Semgrep Supply
Chain](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-supply-chain). It scans for
lockfiles, sees what vulnerabilities you have in your packages, and then it
scans your code to determine if you're using the packages in a vulnerable way.
There's no magic here - we're not doing machine learning or anything that's
using a black box. These are Semgrep static analysis rules, the same kind of
rules that existing users are familiar with. The Semgrep research team is
researching these vulnerabilities and seeing what are the ways that people can
exploit the vulnerability. Then they build rules that identify whether or not
the vulnerability is reachable.

### If a library uses another library which has vulnerable code, can you detect it?

Not right now, but we want to get there eventually. Security folks tell us that
the degree of difficulty of an exploit jumps approximately an order of magnitude
with every level. So if it's a direct dependency, it's not that hard to exploit.
If it's a second level it becomes very challenging, third and below becomes
really-really hard. So we've decided the juice isn't worth the squeeze here for
us, at least with the first version of Semgrep Supply Chain. We also asked
security folks to tell us about a time when they actually were impacted or were
potentially impacted by something that was further down in the dependency tree
The answer is always: I don't think so.

I will add a caveat to that, there have been a couple of instances where the
exploit of the package (a direct dependency) has been so easy that it's almost
as if it is a direct dependency. Log4j is the example that comes to mind, and in
instances like that, we try to just say, reachability analysis actually doesn't
matter here. We call this an upgrade only rule, just upgrade your way out of
this because this vulnerability is so pervasive. But it occurs seldom, and the
rest of the time you should be focusing on trying to differentiate between
vulnerabilities and reachable vulnerabilities.

We did an analysis of the open source ecosystem and found that about 2% of these
vulnerabilities are reachable. So while you’ll get this huge backlog with 500
vulnerabilities, there's 10 that you should be focusing on. That's a much more
reasonable problem.

### What does a "day in the life" look like for you?

The answer is a cliche, “there's no two days that are the same”. I started on
this project wearing a joint IC and PM hat, building prototypes and talking to
security engineers every day. These days I'm running the Semgrep Supply Chain
team. I'm spending most of my time talking to security engineers. We have a
community on Slack that is thriving and we try to find out directly from folks
in there.

I'm always amazed that folks are surprisingly willing to hop on a Zoom call and
show me what they're building. The community of security engineers has been
really, really forthcoming with the problems they’re facing and helping us see
whether we can solve it. It feels like such a beneficial partnership - they say
“Build me a tool that helps me solve this problem” and we're like, we can build
that, tell me more!. And it's a very virtuous cycle.

### What is the team structure around Semgrep Supply Chain?

We have a couple software engineers who have worked on Semgrep since the
beginning. They’re helping to make sure that it's not just powerful but also
exceptionally easy to use. We're trying to be really opinionated about this
because with a tool that gives you a lot of flexibility, people are going to end
up using it to solve all kinds of vulnerability problems. We want to be really
opinionated and push people towards the highest impact things. We have a couple
of folks who are strong in that - there are six in total, including myself.

One of our program analysis engineers, who is writing part of the core of
Semgrep, helped build the lock file tracking system, because the complexity of
that will continue to grow as we add additional lock files. The syntax is pretty
simple, especially compared to code, but the systems that generate them are very
complex. We’re reading the output of those systems and inferring what the system
is trying to tell us. So there's a lot of interesting complexity in build
systems and in interpreting lock files correctly. For example, there are lock
files where the file looks the same but small indicators help you interpret the
lock file and the manifest files together, particularly across a project.

We also have a staff security researcher who runs rule generation systems. We
build a lot of tooling internally to make sure that when vulnerabilities are
disclosed we quickly jump on them. We also make sure that the rules are
consistent and have all the data that customers need to be able to get good
findings and fix them. He's been  sure that we can write high quality rules
quickly, get them to customers quickly and ensure that there aren't bugs along
the way. Sometimes there are rules that say there is no upgrade path, there are
other libraries that you can switch to, or this package is no longer maintained.

And then we have a PM who has been really integral to helping us figure out the
story around the workflow. For example, we've realized smaller companies want to
be in our tool, day over day, triaging their issues in our system. Larger
companies are often centralizing their findings from a variety of issue
management systems. So we want to support both of these use cases, and make sure
we do that in a way that can help companies grow.

### How did you first get into software development?

I have a non-traditional background in tech, but if you'd asked people I grew up
with or maybe my parents, they probably wouldn't be surprised. I was a math kid
in high school and did freelance web developments in high school to build static
HTML pages for small businesses in my town. But I never realized that software
development could be a profession even though I grew up just outside of Silicon
Valley. I was really interested in law and philosophy and went to school for
philosophy undergrad. I went to a liberal arts college, Dickinson College in
Pennsylvania and I had to take science classes to fulfill lab requirements so I
took a couple of CS classes and I remember it felt like it really clicked with
me.

I felt that this is the practical implementation of the logic theory I've been
studying in philosophy. I asked my career counselor, is there such a thing for
people who want to be doctors but for computer science? And they pointed me
towards Microsoft Office certifications and things like that, which was the
wrong thing, but I happened to see an interview on NPR about boot camps so I
ended up doing a bootcamp called App Academy, which taught me Ruby on Rails and
React. Then I ended up at a company called Meraki after graduating, which had
just been acquired by Cisco. It turned out to be this incredible place to learn,
filled with a bunch of really experienced software engineers, but the company
still only had about 50 software engineers.

Post acquisition, we supported a ton of customers and a bunch of promises had
been made, but there were way too few engineers. So you were just handed
projects way out of the scope of what you were capable of. And so I had this
amazing opportunity to grow within Meraki, became a tech lead within a couple of
years and then helped build a new product from zero to one. I realized, okay,
this is the most fun I've ever had, building a product from scratch. So once
that had happened and I became a manager and grew a team, I realized I want to
go do this again so I started to put out my feelers and a couple of my previous
Meraki coworkers had come over here to r2c.

Early in my career, I felt a lot of friction with security so I was not excited
at first to join a security focused company. I had been the developer who spent
a year on a Rails upgrade and going from Ruby on Rails 2 to Ruby on Rails 3
because we were so far behind. I dealt with a bunch of security issues that felt
like black boxes and I'd been there during the time where we turned on our first
static analysis tool.

At r2c our cloud stack is pretty straightforward - Flask in the back end,
TypeScript in the front end. We try to take the perspective of simple, boring
technologies that help us just focus on solving business problems. We have a
strong program analysis team, so TypeScript and Mypy type checking for Python is
something that we adopted pretty early, and has helped us avoid a ton of bugs,
which has been nice.

The non-boring technology we've chosen is OCaml. It’s the preferred language of
Semgrep’s core and our program analysis team really likes it because it allows
you to represent the data structures of programming languages really well. It's
a different paradigm than I was used to but we have some really, really
brilliant people here who live and breathe it.

### What is the most interesting development challenge you've faced working on Semgrep Supply Chain?

There's a bunch of pieces of this that are really hard. One of them is the
breadth of build systems that exist, the complexity of each and that no one
looks the same. Understanding Gradle or Maven build systems that are very
different from some modern build systems, like Poetry. These dependency
management tools are really different. So that's been one really interesting
challenge.

Another has been the rule creation. There's a long backlog of vulnerabilities
from Dependabot and an advanced GitHub security database. I think it has had
4,000 or 5,000 high or critical vulnerabilities in the last few years. NVD has
20,000 new vulnerabilities so far this year, so that's probably a backlog of a
hundred thousand vulnerabilities. We do not have reachability rules for all
these vulnerabilities so backfilling that is really challenging. We're thinking
about a variety of approaches to solve this going forward. Do we hire a rule
writing army to help us backfill these? Do we do machine learning or can we look
at the diffs and auto generate these tools?

Something else we’ve been working on is multiple vulnerabilities related to a
single package in the lock file. For example, you can upgrade your way out of
three findings with one code change because really they all stem from the same
problem with the same package. Being able to represent that in an easily
understandable way but without building a totally separate system is an
interesting technical challenge.

### What is the most interesting tech tool you are playing around with at the moment?

The most recent language I played around with was Go and I had a lot of fun. I
didn't even have a good use case for it, I just felt really nice. One thing I
didn't love about Scala was that it seems like there are 20 ways to do any
particular thing. So it made it difficult to just learn the language because
there were so many different syntactic things in it, but also difficult to know
if you were using the right paradigm at the right time. One of the nice things
about Go is that it's really simple and it allows you to do pretty complicated
stuff pretty easily. It's pretty easy for someone else to go into Go code and
read about it.

I remember at the end of my time at Meraki, I started writing a couple of
services in Go, some things that were higher throughput but pretty simple. So
during my time off between changing jobs, I played around with Go. I was looking
at new apartments and I was doing some personal finance apps on my own for no
good reason at all. I'm sure it would've been simpler to do in a spreadsheet,
but I don't know, it was just fun to do.

New tools that we've been using internally that I've come to really love are a
newish JavaScript component library called [Mantine](https://mantine.dev/) we've
been using to slowly transform the front end. And there's this new tool that we
actually ended up hiring the creator of, internally, called
[LocatorJS](https://www.locatorjs.com/), which helps you locate a frontend
component in your codebase by clicking it in the UI. It takes you into VS Code
and to the place where it's from, which really speeds up the development. You
don't have to go search around in your code to figure out how the UI was built.

I really like getting into the nuts and bolts of how things work and so the act
of exploring the different build systems, learning about the internals of Yarn
and Poetry, has been really interesting as well. We’ve been adopting many of
these tools in-house so we can be users of our own product. That way we can
really feel like we can build for ourselves and talk to other people to find
shared experiences.

### Describe your computer hardware setup

I use a Macbook Pro, but I do my compute intensive work on an AWS EC2 instance
so I don't have a super strong opinion on the hardware itself - it seems to do
the job fine. Though, one thing that I tend to care about the most is probably
my keyboard. I have a Das keyboard with the red cherry keys, I love the feeling
of a mechanical keyboard, it's just a visceral nice thing. But I'm sure whoever
sits next to me at my desk hates me.

### Describe your computer software setup

**OS:** macOS.

**Browser:** Chrome for work, Firefox on my own time.

**Email:** Gmail.

**Chat:** Slack.

**IDE:** VS Code.

**Source control:** Git and GitHub.

### Describe your desk setup

At home I have a standing desk and it has a motor, which is kind of nice to go
up and down in a couple of preset settings. That was my pandemic splurge for my
desk set up. I bought a used Herman Miller office chair because a lot of people
liquidated their offices and you could get second hand Herman Miller chairs for
pretty cheap. I have a second monitor on one of those moving arms, I open
documentation on one and use the other for coding.

<ImageProvider center src="/img/interviews/semgrep-adam-berman-desk.jpg" alt="The desk of Adam Berman, Semgrep" />

### When coding

**Daytime or nighttime?** Night.

**Tea or coffee?** Coffee.

**Silence or music?** I play music that I've heard before when I'm coding.

### What non-tech activities do you like to do?

I play Ultimate Frisbee pretty competitively. I played on traveling club teams
and I find it's a really fun mix of competitive and really challenging which
helps me stay in shape. It’s also a really fun community where you end up on a
team and the team becomes very social. These teams often stay together for
years. I love to get out into the mountains and go on hikes; we're only a couple
hours here in San Francisco from Lake Tahoe, where there's beautiful hiking and
biking tracks.

I like music a lot too and have spent 20 years in different kinds of choirs.
We've had some new folks join the company recently that are very musically
inclined. And so I think there's been some opportunities to jam and have people
who are much better at music than I am, I've been really in awe of their talent.

### Find out more

[Semgrep](https://semgrep.dev/) is a static code analysis tool. The new [Semgrep
Supply Chain](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-supply-chain) functionality
was featured as an "Interesting Tool" in the [Console
newsletter](https://console.dev) on 13 Oct 2022. This interview was conducted on
29 Sep 2022.
