---
title: Interview with Gilad Navot, Swimm
who: Gilad Navot
role: CPO
org: Swimm
what: Platform for continuous documentation.
tags: ["Docs"]
date: 2023-01-16T12:00:00Z
draft: false
headerType: fixed
summary: Interview with Gilad Navot, CPO, Swimm.
isPage: interviews
topImg1Src: /img/interviews/swimm-gilad-navot-profile.jpg
topImg2Src: /img/favicons/swimm.io.svg
ogImg: /img/interviews/swimm-gilad-navot-desk.jpg
---

### What is Swimm? Why did you build it?

Today, sharing knowledge internally about code in an organization is not
effective. It is limiting agility, ramp-up time, and eventually, development
velocity. As long as humans write code, some of the knowledge will only live in
their brains. Usually, it’s the most important piece of knowledge like data
flow, a pattern, use cases that they know of, and the reasons behind their
decisions, whereas comments and high-level docs usually explain how and what you
did. They rarely talk about the why.

The core of [Swimm](https://swimm.io) is to enable you to add live code like
snippets, tokens, file paths, etc., to documents within your repository.
Coupling docs with code allows us to give you benefits that current
documentation tools do not have.

First, we help you discover documents with our IDE plugins. While you write or
read code, you will see the Swimm icon, which tells you that you have a rich
text document about this piece of code.

Second, we help you sync those documents and keep them up to date. If you
integrate Swimm into your CI, we check every PR and see if you’ve broken any
documentation. If your change was meaningful, we will stop and say, "Hey,
there's documentation about this part. Maybe you should review it." If it's not
meaningful, like changing file names, moving code around, and even replacing
whole chunks of code (we have a patented algorithm to detect that), we can
Auto-sync it for you and say, "We’ve got you covered, your documents are up to
date.”

Updating non-meaningful changes is also important because we’ve found that
documentation often gets into this ‘ghost document state’ where they are still
correct but do not reference the latest part of the code. Developers lose trust
in the document even though parts are still relevant. Our Auto-sync capabilities
help there.

We're also working on a way to support the methodology of how you write
documentation and keep it as part of your development workflow. In general, we
invented this concept called Continuous Documentation or code-coupled Continuous
Documentation, which helps you add documentation as part of your workflow.

### What does a "day in the life" look like for you?

The biggest change transitioning from a developer to a product leader was that,
at first, I had an empty calendar and a huge list of tasks. But now I have a
full calendar and an empty list of tasks. So, I try to spend the first half a
day going over the current version, making sure everything is on schedule, and a
bit of product inbound work. In the second part of the day, I usually do some
founder-related activities, building the roadmap, watching user tests, reading
the analytics - stuff like that.

### What is the team structure around Swimm?

In the beginning, we didn't want to structure the teams around a specific
technology or feature. But now, as the product has matured, we’ve restructured
the company around these features. We have three squads. One is in charge of the
editor experience – you can say that the Swimm editor is a product of its own.
So we need a squad to keep it bug-free and up to date with the competition.

We have another squad that is in charge of IDE plugins. This area requires a lot
of specific technical knowledge. We support VS Code and JetBrains. JetBrains
plugins are written in Kotlin, and VS Code plugins in JavaScript. So we need an
entire squad dedicated just for that.

And the third squad is in charge of our Auto-sync algorithm, the GitHub
integration, and what we call the app envelope ( login mechanism, billing stuff,
etc.).

### How did you first get into software development?

As a kid, I had a ZX Spectrum, 8-bit. I mostly played, but I also wrote some
lines in BASIC, which led me to learn how to program in school. But
professionally, I started in the army. I was in the IDF Flight School, where I
trained to be an officer in charge of a group of developers, writing courseware
for flight cadets.

We wrote courseware about aerobatics, aerodynamics, how to start the engine of
certain airplanes, and stuff like that. It was extremely interesting. We wrote
the software using Lingo, which is quite an old language. It was created by
Macromedia - later acquired by Adobe. I started developing in Java. It's a good
language to start with because it's very strict, and then I slowly moved into
the realm of JavaScript and Python - the more loosely coupled languages where
you can just make mistakes. But in my opinion, you need to be a bit more senior
to use them.

### What is the most interesting development challenge you've faced working on Swimm?

The latest one was enhancing Mermaid. It is a JavaScript diagram syntax that we
wanted to support. Imagine your diagrams that describe your architecture or a
flow automatically changed when you change the architecture in the code.
Embedding Swimm Tokens that are Auto-syncable in the Mermaid syntax, saving in
Markdown, and rendering them correctly in GitHub preview - was a big challenge.
But we did it. Now we support Mermaid, and I think it's a very big addition to
our docs.

We faced another major development challenge in our quest to support the editor
in multiple environments. We are now working on adding the ability to create and
edit documents from within the IDE - giving you this full-blown rich text editor
experience next to your code. This includes sharing code between all of those
parts, Kotlin, JavaScript, and having the same editor so that if you fix a bug,
it is fixed for all the environments.

### What’s the most interesting tool/product you’ve been playing around with recently?

We're playing around with GPT-3 right now. There is a limit to the value GPT-3
can give to documentation because you can never deduce the why. The “why” is not
in the code. You can get the smartest AI to write documentation about the code,
but it will never know why you did that or why you chose this way.

Understanding the reasoning is very important, and the reasons only live inside
the brain of the developer who just wrote the code. Where Swimm can really help
is reducing the effort to write new documentation. Like a ghostwriter, we ask
you the why, and Swimm takes care of the rest.

### Describe your computer hardware setup

I take my laptop everywhere, so weight is very important for me. I use the
Lenovo X1 Carbon Nano. It's under one kilo, and you don't really feel it in your
backpack.

My phone is a Pixel 6. I always had a Pixel, even before it was called a Pixel.
I also have a Pixel watch. I don't really need a smartwatch, but I got it anyway
– it's an interesting piece of tech that I am not sure how to use yet.

I always use wireless keyboards, preferably Microsoft. I had to give up my DAS
mechanical keyboard (with CHERRY MX keys) when my son was born, as it makes too
much noise. And so I moved to something quieter.

### Describe your software setup

**OS:** Windows

**Browser:** Chrome

**Email:** Gmail

**Chat:** Slack and Zoom

**IDE:** VS Code

**Source control:** Git and GitHub

### Describe your desk setup

I lost my home office for a nursery. So, I work from the office most of the
time. The most important part for me is not the chair, but the ability to
connect with one cable to the docking station. So, I have a Dell monitor, 27
inch, which gives you a USB-C cable. You connect your laptop to it, and then it
is charging. The camera, keyboard, mouse, headphones, network, and everything
else connects with just one cable.

### When coding

**Daytime or nighttime?** Day.

**Tea or coffee?** Coffee.

**Silence or music?** Music.

### What non-tech activities do you like to do?

When I have the time, I go diving or skiing. I like these types of activities
because you put effort into half a day, and then you can relax the second part
of the day, and you don't blame yourself. You can enjoy the relaxation time
because you earned it by doing some sport before.

### Find out more

[Swimm](https://swimm.io/) is a platform for continuous documentation. It was
featured as an "Interesting Tool" in the [Console
newsletter](https://console.dev) on 19 Jan 2023. This interview was conducted on
16 Jan 2023.
