---
title: "BrowserStack review"
date: 2021-12-07T07:00:00+00:00
draft: false
summary: 
  BrowserStack is a great product for manual and automated testing on a large
  number of devices. Read our review of BrowserStack - a browser testing tool.
metaDescription:
  BrowserStack is a great product for manual and automated testing on a large
  number of devices. Read our review of BrowserStack - a browser testing tool.
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
type: vendor-review
layout: vendor-review
isPage: browser-testing
isSubpage: browserstack
customStyle: false
pageType: vendor-review
customPageStyle: true
category: developer-tools
subcategory:
  label: Browser testing
  name: browser-testing
vendorURL: https://www.browserstack.com/
thumbnail: /img/favicons/www.browserstack.com.png
ranking:
  value: 1
  total: 6
scores:
  overall: 5
  features:
    - name: Devices and browsers supported
      value: 5
    - name: Automation
      value: 4.5
    - name: Debugging & error reporting
      value: 4.5
productShot:
  image: /img/browser-testing/browserstack.png
intro:
  "BrowserStack is a great product for manual and automated testing on a large
  number of devices. Integrations with other services make it a powerful tool,
  but latency can be high when live-testing devices and some newer OS releases
  are not immediately available."
relatedArticles:
  - category: developer-tools
    article:
      name: Some article
      url: https://somewhere.it
  - category: devops
    article:
      name: Some other article
      url: https://somewhere.it
  - category: devops
    subcategory:
      label: Website monitoring
      name: website-monitoring
relatedReviews:
  - name: LambdaTest
    thumbnail: /img/favicons/www.lambdatest.com.jpg
    url: /browser-testing/lambdatest
    category: developer-tools
  - name: SmartBear CrossBrowserTesting
    thumbnail: /img/favicons/crossbrowsertesting.com.png
    url: /browser-testing/crossbrowsertesting
    category: developer-tools
---

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-0" anchor-name="cost" >}}

### Cost

{{< p-custom class="cost-highlight" >}}$39—249/month{{< p--close >}}

BrowserStack offers plans starting at $39/month for live testing, $169/month for
automated testing (desktop only) and $249/month for automated testing (desktop &
mobile).

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-1" anchor-name="key-features" >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-3 icon="checklist" id="key-features" >}} Key features
{{</ rich-title-3 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< vendor-review/feature-title text="Devices and browsers supported" score="5" >}}

Tests can be conducted on more than
[3,000 devices and browsers](https://www.browserstack.com/list-of-browsers-and-platforms/live),
including major releases of Windows, Mac, iOS and Android devices from multiple
vendors, although some newly released versions are not immediately available.
Approximately 50 releases of Chrome, Firefox and Opera are available for
testing. Other browsers like Edge, Safari, Internet Explorer, and Yandex are
also supported, but with fewer historical versions.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< vendor-review/feature-title text="Automation" score="4.5" >}}

BrowserStack supports automation workflows written in multiple languages (Java,
JavaScript, C#, PHP, Python, Ruby, and Perl) and frameworks (Selenium,
JavaScript Testing, Cypress, Playwright, and Puppeteer). Support for numerous
continuous integration tools like Jenkins, Azure Pipelines, CircleCI, and Travis
CI means that testing can be performed automatically as part of a CI/CD
pipeline. BrowserStack supports the use of a REST API to access information,
download logs, update/delete resources, etc.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< vendor-review/feature-title text="Debugging & error reporting" score="4.5" >}}

BrowserStack can report bugs to various project management tools like Jira,
Trello, GitHub and Slack. Screenshots captured during tests can be annotated in
the dashboard to highlight certain sections which did not render properly before
generating bug reports. The logs generated by the Selenium, network, browser
console, etc., as well as video recordings of tests, can be used to analyze
failed test cases.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-2" anchor-name="like" >}}

{{< rich-title-3 icon="like" >}}What we like{{</ rich-title-3 >}}

BrowserStack supports testing on a large number of browsers (50+ versions for
popular ones) and devices (both real and virtual). Real mobile devices are
available with Android and iOS versions going as far back as 2.2 and 3.0
respectively. Virtual machines are available with customizable configurations
like screen resolution, operating system (ranging from Windows 11 to Windows XP
and macOS 12 to macOS 10.6), browser version and some browser-specific
capabilities such as whether or not to enable popups in Internet Explorer.
Multiple testing frameworks, namely Selenium, Cypress, Playwright and Puppeteer
can be used to write tests.

At the time of writing, recently launched devices and OS updates (macOS 12, and
iPhone 13) were still not available for testing despite being released several
months ago. The speed at which new OS releases are available varies
significantly amongst all [the different browser testing tools we
reviewed](/browser-testing/).

Local testing can be done by creating an encrypted tunnel to securely test
websites hosted behind firewalls or VPNs. Additional configuration can be set up
to mask the output of particular commands, allowing sensitive data like email,
cookies, credentials, etc. to be
[redacted from session logs](https://www.browserstack.com/docs/automate/selenium/hide-sensitive-data#nodejs).
Disabling Selenium logs and video recordings for such tests can further improve
privacy. When video recordings are turned off, screenshots of remote test
devices can be captured and stored straight to the user's computer to analyze
issues.

BrowserStack offers a
[Chrome extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/browserstack/nkihdmlheodkdfojglpcjjmioefjahjb/related?hl=en)
that opens the current URL in a live testing environment with a single click.
User interface components can be tested - allowing/denying browser permissions
or simulating clicks on alerts and prompts is possible. This is important to
avoid regressions or errors in crucial transaction procedures.

Testing on real devices is supported, which makes it easier to find
device-specific peculiarities. BrowserStack has data centers
[across the globe](https://www.browserstack.com/data-centers) - the tests can be
tailored to run in various countries and languages, allowing timezone bugs and
localization issues to be detected. Local censorship can also be discovered
thanks to the ability to run tests from more than
[60 countries](https://www.browserstack.com/ip-geolocation) (currently in beta).

BrowserStack supports
[several SDKs](https://www.browserstack.com/docs/automate/selenium) and
integrations for popular CI/CD tools to perform automatic tests viaBitbucket
Pipelines, GitHub Actions and on CMSs such as WordPress and Shopify. It is
possible to integrate BrowserStack and multiple other platforms like Google
Sheets, Microsoft Teams, OneDrive, Microsoft Office 365, Vimeo, etc. using the
[Zapier](https://zapier.com/apps/browserstack/integrations) integration.
Compatibility with a large number of services allows users to extend
BrowserStack’s functionality and use it in a variety of scenarios.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-3" anchor-name="dislike" >}}

{{< rich-title-3 icon="dislike" >}}What we don't like{{</ rich-title-3 >}}

BrowserStack Live allows testing websites on physical mobile devices in
real-time, but we found that network latency is high. This issue is most
prominent when scrolling or typing. A few seconds of delay between pressing a
key and seeing the character on screen is undesirable and annoying. Another
thing to keep in mind is that remote debugging via dev tools is available only
on Chrome browsers on Android devices. Screen reader functionality (in beta) is
not yet supported on mobile devices. On desktop devices, it did not work
properly and kept repeating the same sentence again and again.

Test reports are not generated for live tests. [Other products we
tested](/browser-stack/) keep a log of tests performed and allow screen
recording while testing to review bugs later, but this is not possible with
BrowserStack. Bugs can only be shared via a screenshot, making it difficult to
share findings with stakeholders.

Most of the real mobile devices available for testing are from a handful of
vendors (Samsung or Google) - fewer devices are available from other vendors
(OnePlus, Xiaomi, and Motorola) and for some vendors (Vivo, Oppo, and Huawei)
only a single device is available. There are no Linux desktop devices available
for testing. Newer devices like iPhone 13 are also not available yet.

BrowserStack limits the number of tests that can be queued. Once this limit is
reached, the only way to add more tests is to wait for prior tests to finish
execution or pay more. There is no option to view or edit the queue from the
dashboard - only the number of tests in the queue are displayed.

BrowserStack supports
[Axe API](https://www.deque.com/axe/core-documentation/api-documentation/) to
run
[accessibility tests](https://www.browserstack.com/docs/automate/selenium/accessibility-testing),
test reports are generated as JSON objects and contain relevant details such as
Xpath of the element which caused the violation. Although it gets the job done,
this process is not very user friendly because the tester needs to scour through
raw JSON files. Other tools like Polypane or Ghost Inspector provide better
solutions by presenting the results in a more user friendly fashion.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-4" anchor-name="console-developer-perspective" >}}

### Console developer perspective

{{< simple-table name="console-developer-perspective" data-file="browser-testing/browserstack" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-5" anchor-name="company-context" >}}

### Company context

{{< simple-table name="company-context" data-file="browser-testing/browserstack" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-6" anchor-name="alternatives" >}}

### Alternatives

In our review of the [best browser testing tools for
developers](/browser-testing/), we highlight the best 6 browser testing tools
for developers in {{< year >}}. See how they compare to BrowserStack in the
table below.

{{< div-custom class="comparison-checklist-table-wrapper" >}}

{{< simple-table name="comparison-checklist" data-file="browser-testing/browserstack" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-7" anchor-name="related-reviews" >}}

### More browser testing reviews

{{< related-reviews >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-8" anchor-name="related-articles" >}}

### Further reading

{{< related-articles >}}

{{< div--close >}}
