**Russ Cox:** All the Go code in the world was in one source repository,
which meant that if we did want to make some sort of major change to the way
things looked or even sometimes the way things worked, we knew where all the
code was that had to be updated. There were a couple of times when we were going
to change something syntactically, and we thought we knew what it was going to
be and how to implement it, and we said, “Well, let's go see what it looks
like.” We’d get everyone to just sort of crowd around one computer, usually
mine. I'd open up an editor and open up literally every single file, Go source
file, in the world, then just do some global search and replace kind of things
in the editor. They'd watch the files changing on the screen, and everyone would
be like, “Oh, yes. That looks good.” We read it all out and \[would\] go back to
our desks.

**Russ Cox:** We just discovered that for the last six releases, we had
this kind of bug where you couldn't actually build a Go program without an Xcode
installed, totally unintended, and no one noticed. If we had any sort of
telemetry or tracking of what is the build cache hit rate on things like the
standard library? — Which is a continual thing that we actually do run into
problems with. — What’s the hit rate on the build cache? If we knew that when we
looked at how it was going and then after a new release came out, and all of a
sudden, it was much closer to 0 than 100, all of a sudden, you would say, “Oh, I
wonder why,” and you would look into that. But without that kind of visibility,
we just can't. So telemetry really is about how do we get the information that
makes us better as software developers.
