**Erica Brescia:** If you look at the very early days of software development
and open source in particular, we've gone from this real DIY kind of bespoke,
“The cool thing to do is compile your own kernel,” to a focus on time
optimization and “How can you build the best thing possible the fastest?” If I
had to look at a theme, that's a theme that I think about a lot. It's no longer
about doing everything yourself. Instead, it's about really open source and
building on the work of others, right? Over 90% of software developed today is
built on top of open source, and most things that you need, from a building
blocks perspective, to build a new app already exist in many cases. So now it's
about, “Hey, what tools are out there? How can I engage with the community? How
can I learn from others? How can I participate in things whether it's Stack
Overflow, or building and sharing code on GitHub, or discussing things and
issues?” It's much more collaborative and intertwined. I think that allows
people to build new things much more quickly.

**Erica Brescia:** I think a lot of companies underestimate the amount of
effort that is required in building a true open-source community, where you're
getting folks contributing to the core of that project. That's a material
investment. A good way to think about it is you're actually taking a lot of what
you might traditionally spend on marketing and instead investing that in your
team that supports the growth and health and engagement of this community, which
is no small feat. Then you can use that to build awareness and a bottoms-up
adoption of your software in a way that just sheer traditional marketing would
never allow you to do. Then you can layer a sales motion on top of that.
