### What is Airplane and why did you build it?

Airplane is a developer platform for internal tools. The idea is that we provide
developers with a host of primitives---services, SDKs, etc.---to build internal
software faster.

I consider "internal tools" to be a somewhat awkward way to describe the space,
even if it's the best we have right now. Most software is actually internal.
Whether it's a silicon valley startup or some real estate company in the
midwest, companies need software for the work that they do - they need internal
tools. So really, I think of Airplane as a business tools company. We let people
build tools faster, and our goal is to power as many of the business tools out
there as possible.

The reason why we started comes from a few areas. My co-founder and I both come
from an enterprise SaaS background. I was CTO at Benchling, which was in the
life sciences, but ultimately built enterprise SaaS primitives, just specialized
for biology. My co-founder Ravi previously co-founded and ran the go-to-market
side at Heap. Both of these companies developed all sorts of tools to run their
core product, but even then we noticed how manual everything felt. Which was
ironic, given the software nature of the companies.

When we started looking at startup ideas, we talked to about 40-50 engineering
friends of ours, engineer managers, and we just asked them what tools they were
building or what they wished they had. We weren't on the "internal tools" path
yet. We were trying to solve problems for engineers because we liked building
for engineers. The pattern of a script runner actually was the first thing we
came onto. And we started exploring the idea of, "Hey, what if you just could
run scripts, but like in a hosted fashion, what does that look like?"

And the more we played with that, it was like, "Oh, actually this is like
building Lambda for internal tools." We're creating a way to make it easy to
code and push a function, but then wrap UI, permissions, notifications,
authentication, logging, and all that around it.
