### What is Amplication? Why did you build it?

[Amplication](https://amplication.com/) is an open source platform that allows
developers to automatically generate all the repetitive and boilerplate part of
their backend code in order to be able to focus on writing the business logic,
creating the actual value of an application, easily scaffolding an API with
authentication, authorization, login, tracing, and database connectivity.

Everything that can be automated is automated and the developer gets all their
code from Amplication with a Git pull request. The developer has full ownership
of the code. This allows them to build scaffolding for an entire fully
functional backend with all the data models, crowd operation, and even a client
application in minutes. The developer can always go back to Amplication, make
changes on the data schema, add more integration, change any type of
implementation on settings, and get a new pull request with the delta, push the
code to Git, continue working on that code, customize the code and switch
between custom code for business value or anything else.

The code that we generate is Node.js domain, so we generate a Node application
for their backend based on NestJS as a web framework. We have a plugin system
that allows either third parties or the open source community to create plugins
that will impact the code generation process. Instead of getting something that
is very rigid or very opinionated, anyone could create a plugin that impacts the
code generation process, adding a new folder structure, formatting integration,
type of database and so on â€“ this is Amplication in a nutshell.

As for why we built it, I've been a developer almost since I was born. I have
been working as an engineer or engineering manager for all my career and was
dealing a lot with scaffolding, creating services, creating applications,
onboarding new developers, and delivering knowledge, best practices, and
know-hows on how to build services. Eventually I decided to go and build
Amplication as an open source project, and the rest is history. It has been
three years since we started building it, one year since we got funded. Now we
have almost 10,000 GitHub stars and a community of thousands of developers, many
thousands of signups and developers using the product around the world.
