### What is Stashpad and why did you build it?

[Stashpad](https://www.stashpad.com/) is a notepad. I’m a software engineer, and
I set out to create tools to help other developers like me to work better and
enjoy their work. I started with some ideas, little things I thought could be
better, but when I really dug into it and started to sit next to other
developers as they were working, what I saw is that there are a couple of apps
that developers pretty much always have up on their screen. They have their code
editor, a browser, Slack, and then there's a notepad. All of the other tools
except the notepad have gotten a ton of investment, but the notepad is often
just a plain text file – it's super bare bones. When I saw that, I realized,
"Oh, that's actually how I manage all my work and process my thoughts related to
work. It's so important and it hasn't been thought about in this way." And so,
we set out to reimagine the notepad for developers like us.

Stashpad is better than just a text editor in two ways. The first is that it has
all the features that developers would expect of any tool. It has markdown
support, dark theme or light theme. You can customize any of the key bindings,
and it's very keyboard centric. It has code block support with lots of different
languages, code syntax highlighting, all those things that you expect as a
developer.

And then, to me, where it gets even more interesting is that, as a professional
software developer you often have to jump around different tasks. There’s
deep-focus work, but also a lot of context switching. That's just a necessary
evil. Stashpad is specifically designed to let you jump across those different
threads and jot things down, compartmentalized, such that you never get too
disorganized and always feel pretty good about where you're at.
