### What is Warp? Why did you build it?

[Warp](https://warp.dev/) is a reinvention of the terminal.

I was really interested in building something that could potentially impact all
developers. The terminal is one of the two tools where if you walk by a
developer's desk, you're likely to see it open alongside a code editor. For some
developers, the terminal still is their code editor. It's a ubiquitous tool, but
from a product perspective there are a number of issues with it.

Firstly, it is a tool that's hard to learn and hard to configure. Itâ€™s hard to
get really good at it. On the flip side, if you do manage to get really good at
it, you unlock a lot of productivity. I've worked with engineers throughout my
career who were good at it, and who have been able to do things that I just
couldn't do as an average user.

One of our product ideas was can you make that power accessible to all
developers?

The second idea on the product side really stemmed from my time being as a
Principal engineer on Google Docs. I used to be the tech lead for that project
and helped build a lot of Google Sheets in particular. That experience made me
realize how if you take an app that has traditionally been desktop, single-user,
non-collaborative software, and make it cloud-native and collaborative, that
always unlocks significant productivity gains.

The idea was to do something like that for the terminal, which is one of the
last apps I can think of that's both very widely used, but remains
non-collaborative and not oriented towards teams.

Warp needs to be a very fast app, so we built it in Rust. It's GPU accelerated.
Today, it's Mac only and is in public beta, so anyone can go download it and
start using it.

We plan on supporting more platforms by taking that same Rust codebase and using
it for Linux, Windows, and also for the web where we would do WebAssembly and
WebGL rendering of Warp.
