---
title: "The Best Code Collaboration & Pair Programming For Developers - Console"
titlePrefix: "The best"
titleCategory: "code collaboration & pair programming"
titleSuffix: "tools for developers"
date: 2021-10-28T12:00:00+00:00
draft: false
summary:
  "The best code collaboration & pair programming for developers: Visual Studio Live
  Share, Code with Me, GitLive, Duckly, CodeTogether, AWS Cloud9. 10
  code collaboration & pair programming tools reviewed."
metaDescription:
  "The best code collaboration & pair programming for developers: Visual Studio Live
  Share, Code with Me, GitLive, Duckly, CodeTogether, AWS Cloud9. 10
  code collaboration & pair programming tools reviewed."
headerType: fixed
hideLines: true
hidePlanes: true
type: tools
layout: category-review
isPage: tools
isSubpage: code-collaboration-pair-programming
customStyle: true
pageType: tools-category-review
customPageStyle: true
category: developer-tools
subcategory: code-collaboration-pair-programming
authorName: Naman Singhal
authorImg: /img/naman.jpg
authorBioBrief:
  Naman has a background in computer science and has published research with
  IEEE on predicting software bugs using machine learning models.
authorBio:
  is a technical writer at Console. He has a background in computer science and
  recently published research into machine learning predictions of software
  quality at the International Conference on Advanced Computing and
  Communication Systems.
---

The best code collaboration and pair programming tools allow participants to
share and edit code in real-time without compromising on security as well as
provide communication options such as a chat and voice/video conferencing built
into the coding environment.

We tested 10 code collaboration and pair programming tools using our independent
[selection criteria](/about#selection-criteria) and the requirements described
below. The best code collaboration & pair programming tools for developers in
{{< year >}} are:

1. [Visual Studio Live Share](#visual-studio-live-share)
2. [Code With Me](#code-with-me)
3. [GitLive](#gitlive)
4. [CodeTogether](#codetogether)
5. [Duckly](#duckly)
6. [AWS Cloud9](#aws-cloud9)

In this review, we discuss what makes these the best code collaboration tools.
We examined the pair programming tools from the perspective of a developer
looking to collaborate remotely. With the changing shape of the workplace as a
result of COVID-19, working as part of a distributed team has become
increasingly commonplace. Our reviews assess key criteria including UI,
communication capabilities and the security of the code collaboration tools
tested.

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-0" anchor-name="tldr" >}}

### tl;dr the best code collaboration tools

{{< tools/category-review/tldr-list--open >}}
{{< tools/category-review/miniature-card name="Visual Studio Live Share" thumbnail="/img/favicons/visualstudio-liveshare.microsoft.com.png" url="https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/" anchor="visual-studio-live-share" score="4.2" >}}
{{< tools/category-review/miniature-card name="Code With Me" thumbnail="/img/favicons/www.jetbrains.com.png" url="https://www.jetbrains.com/code-with-me/" anchor="code-with-me" score="4.2" >}}
{{< tools/category-review/miniature-card name="GitLive" thumbnail="/img/favicons/git.live.png" url="https://git.live/" anchor="gitlive" score="3.5" >}}
{{< tools/category-review/miniature-card name="CodeTogether" thumbnail="/img/favicons/www.codetogether.com.png" url="https://www.codetogether.com/" anchor="codetogether" score="3.3" >}}
{{< tools/category-review/miniature-card name="Duckly" thumbnail="/img/favicons/duckly.com.svg" url="https://duckly.com/" anchor="duckly" score="3.3" >}}
{{< tools/category-review/miniature-card name="AWS Cloud9" thumbnail="/img/favicons/aws.amazon.com.jpg" url="https://aws.amazon.com/cloud9/" anchor="aws-cloud9" score="2.5" >}}
{{< ul--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-1" anchor-name="requirements-above" >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-3 icon="checklist" id="requirements" >}} Requirements
{{</ rich-title-3 >}}

The three most important features every code collaboration tool must have are:
specific support for pair programming, the ability to communicate with
participants via voice, video, and/or chat, and robust security. Other features
might be useful to improve the product experience, but modern remote pair
programming & code collaboration tools in {{< year >}} must have these three
requirements.

For each of our code collaboration & pair programming tool reviews we will
assess functionality based on our [standard selection
criteria](/about/#selection-criteria) plus these three requirements:

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

#### Pair programming

All tools must make it easy to create and connect to remote programming
sessions. Hosts should be allowed to share their code to allow multiple
participants to code simultaneously. 

The UI design should make it easy to distinguish between participants and track
who is making changes. All participants must be able to perform simple tasks
such as copy-paste, find-replace, git diff, view outputs of executed code, debug
applications etc. Changes made in code by one participant should be reflected
instantaneously to all participants. Sessions should be resilient to network
faults and perform well on average internet connections.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

#### Communication capabilities

Coding is much more than just typing code in a text file. Programmers must be
able to communicate effectively with other participants to discuss the design,
layout and architecture of the application. Multiple communication channels,
such as audio/video calling and chat, should be available for communicating with
each other without breaking the workflow.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open classes="flat-lists" >}}

#### Debugging & error reporting

Code is valuable, so security is important. We expect encryption at rest and in
transmission as standard, and anyone who was not granted permission by the host
of the session should be unable to join or view the contents of the session.

Tools should clearly show what all resources are shared with participants and
allow the host to grant and revoke permissions to each individual participant.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

### Best code collaboration tools

We reviewed 10 online code collaboration tools. The best are: [Visual Studio Live Share](#visual-studio-live-share) and [Code With Me](#code-with-me).

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-2" anchor-name="visual-studio-live-share" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-top--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Visual Studio Live Share" anchor="visual-studio-live-share" thumbnail="/img/favicons/visualstudio-liveshare.microsoft.com.png" url="https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/services/live-share/" score="4.2" >}}

Visual Studio Live Share is an IDE extension by Microsoft built for real time
code collaboration between Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio, and a browser
client. Up to 30 participants can join a coding session and it includes voice
and chat communication functionality.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-visual-studio-live-share.png" alt="Visual Studio Live Share product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-bottom--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-cost--open highlight="Visual Studio Live Share is available for free." >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-5 icon="checklist" >}}Key features {{</ rich-title-5 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Pair programming" score="5" >}}

Live Share supports up to 30 participants within a coding session. Once shared,
the participants can access the entire workspace of the host. Live Share can
optionally share the host's other resources, such as the terminal and any
running servers, which allows the participants to run and debug applications as
if they were running locally. The shared terminal can be read-only or fully
collaborative so both the host and the participants can run commands and see the
results.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Communication capabilities" score="3.0" >}}

Live Share allows participants to communicate via voice calls as well as chat
once the Live Share Audio extension has been installed. Basic features such as
configuring input/output devices and muting the microphone can all be performed
without leaving the editor. Participants can also create comment threads on
individual code lines for the duration of the session which allows them to
discuss the code in context.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Secure collaboration" score="4.5" >}}

All code, any terminals, running servers (once shared), and any other
collaboration features provided by Live Share sessions are [end-to-end
encrypted](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/security#wire-encryption)
using the SSH protocol and the encryption key is rotated periodically throughout
the duration of the session. Hosts can fine-tune access controls in settings to
[automatically accept or reject join
requests](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/security#auto-rejecting-or-accepting-users-that-are-not-signed-in-anonymous)
made by anonymous participants. Sessions can be started in read-only mode to
prevent accidental edits without losing other functionality such as debugging.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-like--open >}}

Visual Studio Live Share automatically populates a list of recent and suggested
contacts in the IDE to directly invite available participants without needing to
send links via an external application (like chat or email). Participants can
set their
[status](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/contacts#how-does-status-for-contacts-work)
to “Do not disturb” mode to suppress invitations or opt-out of sharing their
status altogether.

Connections are established in peer-to-peer mode by default and a fallback relay
server in the cloud is used when direct connections are blocked by a firewall.
It is possible to [explicitly set connection
mode](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/connectivity#changing-the-connection-mode)
to one or the other. Participants who do not have the IDE installed can join a
collaboration session from the browser as a guest participant.

By default, Live Share shares any files opened by the host, even if they are
external to the shared folder, and hides any file that is specified in
`.gitignore`. [Fine-grained
control](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/liveshare/reference/security#controlling-file-access-and-visibility)
over file sharing is possible by creating a `.vsls.json` file with the desired
permission settings. The participants can follow along with the host by
requesting focus, which makes pair programming much easier.

Participants can view the git diff of edited files against the working tree,
stage and discard changes, but can’t commit. If any files edited by participants
are staged, the host’s commit messages are automatically appended with a useful
‘Co-authored-by’ comment containing the name and email address of the
participant. 

Live Share does not synchronize user specific extensions like themes, icons,
keyboard bindings, etc. but shares anything that is specific to the context of
the project. For instance, when working on a Vue project, the
[Vetur](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=octref.vetur)
extension would be shared across to any participants if the host has it
installed - regardless of whether or not participants have it installed as well.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-dislike--open >}}

Visual Studio Live Share cannot be used with other non-Microsoft editors like
Eclipse or Sublime, but that is probably not surprising! The participants must
login using a GitHub, Microsoft or Azure Active Directory account to use it.
On-prem GitHub Enterprise accounts are not supported.

Metadata does not persist across Live Share sessions which means any chats or
comment threads are lost once the session is disconnected. There is no way to
bookmark or add custom contacts and there is no way to permanently grant
permissions to trusted individuals for all future sessions. This can make
establishing new sessions on the same projects quite tedious.

At the time of writing, the Live Share Audio extension, which must be downloaded
separately to achieve voice chat functionality, was in preview mode (v0.1.91),
and we struggled to get it work consistently. Something that may surprise users
is that all the participants in a session share a common undo stack - pressing
undo reverts the last change made in the file regardless of who made the change.
This is particularly frustrating when multiple people are editing the same file
simultaneously.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-3" anchor-name="code-with-me" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-top--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Code With Me" anchor="code-with-me" thumbnail="/img/favicons/www.jetbrains.com.png" url="https://www.jetbrains.com/code-with-me/" score="4.2" >}}

Code With Me is a service for remote collaborative code editing and
pair-programming that enables reviewing, editing, and debugging code with other
programmers in real time. It supports up to 50 participants in a single session
and includes chat, voice and video communications powered by Jitsi.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-code-with-me.png" alt="Code With Me product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-bottom--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-cost--open highlight="Code With Me is free for users using the community version or with an active subscription to JetBrains IDEs. Premium licenses start at $5/user/month and $10/user/month for individual and enterprise users respectively." >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-5 icon="checklist" >}}Key features {{</ rich-title-5 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Pair programming" score="4.5" >}}

Code With Me allows connecting with up to 50 participants in a single session.
However, only 5 participants can type simultaneously. In addition to the code
repository, hosts can choose to share local servers, terminal access and local
files with participants. The host can force participants to follow the host’s
cursor as they move across files. This feature is useful in classroom scenarios
where the teacher needs students to focus closely. Participants can set debug
points, run, and debug code alongside the host on the host's machine.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Communication capabilities" score="4.0" >}}

Code With Me uses the open-source Jitsi framework to provide chat, voice and
video conferencing solutions within IDE. This allows them to offer certain
features not available in other tools such as sending private messages to
participants and hand raise functionality in meetings. [Full Sync
Mode](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/code-with-me.html#full_sync), which
replicates a guest's screen to look similar to the host's or vice versa, is also
a unique feature not offered by other tools.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Secure collaboration" score="4.0" >}}

Code With Me has a variety of security settings that allow the host to control
the level of access to the project data. The permissions can be configured for
the whole session or for specific guests in the session. Connections are
established through an [open-source distributed
protocol](https://github.com/JetBrains/rd) created by JetBrains which uses TLS
1.3 for end-to-end encryption. However some metadata like IP addresses, project
names, and the operating system username are shared unencrypted because they are
used for establishing a session.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-like--open >}}

Code With Me offers code completion to all participants in a session. Unlike
many other tools we tested, the undo functionality is local to each participant,
which means both guests and the host can reverse their individual changes which
significantly improves the collaborative programming experience. Files can be
excluded from the sharing session by an option for the host to hide them.

Audio and video calls have extra settings like blurring background, hand
raising, screen sharing, muting participants, etc. which enhance the overall
communication experience. Network statistics such as bytes sent/received, ping,
server location etc. are available and the quality of video and audio calls can
be changed for a low bandwidth internet connection. 

Only the host needs to purchase a license - guests can download a client to
connect to sessions. “Full sync mode” syncs the state of all windows such as
files, terminal, debugger, gradle, Ant, maven, (build) messages etc. This
feature is useful when it is difficult to follow around advanced users in a
complex workspace. Enterprise customers can choose to host their own on-premises
relay servers for additional security, avoiding the cloud altogether. If
desired, system administrators can disable Code With Me sessions across the
organization. 

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-dislike--open >}}

Code With Me implements the main functionality we were looking for, but suffers
from a lack of polish. For example, when installing the client in our tests, an
x86 build was the default even on an ARM-based M1 MacBook. Only on launching the
client did it recommend installing an Apple Silicon optimized build.

Another rough edge was in Full Sync Mode when switching tabs. This mode is
supposed to sync the data but not the UI, however attempting to minimize the
window would result in the UI breaking that could only be fixed by restarting
the client.

We also saw a bug with how the terminal window is shared. Even with the relevant
permissions set, guests sometimes cannot see the contents of the window, or they
can see the commands entered but not the output. This hampers the collaboration
experience.

This continues with the audio/video sharing, which is poorly integrated with the
UI and it feels as if the entire Jitsi application was cloned without much
thought. For example, changing video settings sometimes freezes the screen and
the UI text often overlaps other text and overflows from the screen. At the time
of writing, calls were not encrypted (in beta, but did not work in our tests)
and the background blur feature (in beta) was very CPU intensive.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-4" anchor-name="gitlive" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-top--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="GitLive" anchor="gitlive" thumbnail="/img/favicons/git.live.png" url="https://git.live/" score="3.5" >}}

GitLive is a real-time code collaboration extension for VS Code, JetBrains IDEs,
and Android Studio. It is deeply integrated with git and notifies the author of
any merge conflicts as other people are working on files live (even before they
are committed).

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-gitlive.png" alt="GitLive product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-bottom--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-cost--open highlight="GitLive offers a free plan with the session duration limited to 40min. The premium plan costs $7/user/month with a maximum session duration of 4hrs." >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-5 icon="checklist" >}}Key features {{</ rich-title-5 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Pair programming" score="3" >}}

GitLive requires participants to have a local copy of the git repository hosted
on one of the supported hosting services (i.e. GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab and
Azure DevOps). The host can use the livesharing service from GitLive to start
collaboration sessions, or [use Visual Studio Live Share/Code With
Me](https://docs.git.live/docs/supportforlivesharecodewithme/). The GitLive
built-in code sharing service can share code across multiple IDEs which allows
participants to work together on the same file in real time. However, only 2
people can take part in a pair programming session and participants can not
remotely run, debug or view the output of executed code.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Communication capabilities" score="4.5" >}}

GitLive’s video-calling feature allows participants to start the collaboration
session straight from their IDE. The ability to start and answer calls right
from the IDE means participants can connect directly without depending on third
party apps to share URLs. Calls are connected via a web app in a browser tab and
participants can perform actions such as screen sharing, switching camera, etc.
GitLive does not offer chat functionality.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Secure collaboration" score="3" >}}

GitLive requires the project admin to [authorize
GitLive](https://docs.git.live/docs/admin/) on the repository hosting service,
which allows GitLive to maintain strict access control and share the repository
only with those participants who have write access to the repository. This means
GitLive itself does not manage any permissions - removing a member's access to a
repository removes their access on GitLive. The [privacy
policy](https://app.git.live/privacy) shows what data is collected and how it is
used, but no information is published about how sessions are established and if
they are accessible by GitLive staff.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-like--open >}}

GitLive takes a unique approach to solve the problem of remote pair programming
by supporting Visual Studio Live Share and Code With Me alongside their own
proprietary code sharing solution. When starting a session, the host is
presented with a choice to select which tool (if installed) they would like to
use.

In live share sessions, participants have the choice to follow each other’s
cursors when scrolling or switching files, or they can work independently. Any
changes can be seen in real time by the participants. Participants can perform
simple actions such as viewing changes made by the host since the last commit,
staging changes etc.

Even when participants are not in a live share session, participants can track
changes across branches, see how many lines were added or removed, and see the
working copy of collaborators (before they are committed). This allows GitLive
to offer unique features such as notifying the author of conflicts before they
are committed and cherry picking the changes to avoid those conflicts when
merging. Participants can choose to switch off this feature and hide their
working copy if desired. 

GitLive integrates with multiple issue trackers (Jira, GitHub Issues, Bitbucket
Issues, Azure DevOps Work Items and GitLab Issues) which allows participants to
share which issue they are working on. Other features such as automatic branch
creation, starting work on assigned issues, and connecting an issue to an
existing branch simplify the process of collaboration when working with a large
team.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-dislike--open >}}

GitLive does not manage any permissions on it’s own and only allows live-sharing
between contributors of the repository. This means all participants must have a
local copy of the repository open in their IDE before they can start working
together. Other tools allow quickly sharing code in a browser tab without
needing to first set up a development environment. This is not possible with
GitLive. It should also be noted that the host can share code with only one
participant at a time.

GitLive’s own proprietary code sharing solution does not allow the host to share
terminals or servers with participants. This means running or debugging
applications remotely is not possible and the host must rely on other supported
services (VS Live Share/Code With Me) to provide this functionality. 

GitLive shares any file opened by the host with participants, including files
from outside the working directory. GitLive does not provide any solution to
hide files from participants. It is not possible for the host to start a
read-only session which means participants can edit any file (including files
like .env which are not meant to be shared). 

Unfortunately we hit some bugs in our testing of GitLive’s [merge conflict
detection](https://docs.git.live/docs/mergeconflicts/). We found that it
sometimes displays error messages like “mismatch of hash comparing” and “sync
failed during collaboration” which causes either one or all participants to lose
changes made in that file. It’s difficult to know if this was a temporary
problem, but it is something to watch out for.

All the other tools we tested advertise security measures such as the encryption
algorithms used, technologies to protect user’s data etc., but GitLive does not
have this information available on their website or blog. This is a barrier to
any user who wants to do proper due diligence on GitLive’s security approach.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-5" anchor-name="codetogether" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-top--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="CodeTogether" anchor="codetogether" thumbnail="/img/favicons/www.codetogether.com.png" url="https://www.codetogether.com/" score="3.3" >}}

CodeTogether is an extension for VS Code, IntelliJ and Eclipse that enables
real-time collaborative development across IDEs and browsers. It allows sharing
servers, terminals & remote debugging with up to 32 participants.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-codetogether.png" alt="CodeTogether product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-bottom--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-cost--open highlight="CodeTogether has a free plan with the maximum number of participants per session restricted to 3. Premium plans start at  $10.50/user/month." >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-5 icon="checklist" >}}Key features {{</ rich-title-5 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Pair programming" score="4.5" >}}

CodeTogether offers two options for connecting to remote pair programming
sessions - via one of the supported IDEs (VS Code, IntelliJ and Eclipse) or in a
browser window. Hosts can share code, terminals, and server ports with
participants during the session. Any changes made to the files are synced in
real-time to all participants. Both host and participants can [launch
tests](https://www.codetogether.com/docs/running-tests-and-launches/), however,
in both cases, they are executed only on the host’s machine and the results are
synced. It is also possible to create and run test specific launch
configurations in Eclipse and IntelliJ clients.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Communication capabilities" score="1.5" >}}

CodeTogether expects users to continue using their existing tools for
communication as it offers no chat, call or screen share functionality. Although
communication capabilities are limited, it offers a unique “rooms” feature.
Participants can work together in the same room (all sharing a common
[caret](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caret_navigation) position and text
selections), or in a different room to work solely without disrupting the
workflow of other participants. {{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Secure collaboration" score="4" >}}

All sessions in CodeTogether are relayed through a backend server however,
sessions are [end-to-end
encrypted](https://www.codetogether.com/download/security/) and source code is
not stored anywhere except on the host’s machine. The host can set various
permissions such as accepting connection requests, sharing files and terminals
in a read-only/read-write mode, allowing participants to run/test applications
before the session starts but those permissions can not be modified during the
session. Enterprise customers can host CodeTogether on-premises.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-like--open >}}

CodeTogether supports multiple IDEs (VS Code, Eclipse and IntelliJ) and allows
participants to join as a guest from a browser window. Browser sessions can be
configured to have light/dark mode with custom keybindings emulating any of the
supported IDEs (just as powerful as real IDEs). Having cross-IDE support means
participants are not restricted to a certain vendor and team members can work in
the environment of their choice.

[CodeTogether Teams](https://www.codetogether.com/docs/codetogether-teams/)
allows the host to add, join or manage a team of people. Team members can see
all active remote sessions and join directly without needing an invite URL. The
host can also easily invite team members to join a session or ask a team member
to host a session. It is also possible to only allow team members from a
specific team to join the session. This is useful when pair programming sessions
are organized frequently.

Helpful assistive features such as content assist, code validation, quick fixes,
etc., come from the host IDE. This means all participant’s IDEs are just as
powerful as the host’s. 

Enterprise users hosting CodeTogether on-premises have access to [a metrics
dashboard](https://www.codetogether.com/docs/using-the-on-premises-dashboard/)
which shows the number of online users and active sessions in real time, as well
as historical usage trends. Usage stats can be downloaded from the dashboard or
exported to tools like Prometheus or Graphite using
[StatsD](https://github.com/statsd/statsd) for analyzing metrics externally. 

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-dislike--open >}}

Although CodeTogether provides a powerful cross-IDE experience, it does not
allow participants to interact with the host's git repository. Viewing diffs,
staging, and committing changes in the IDE is not possible for participants.
Even when the host opens the GUI based git diff tab in their IDE, participants
just stay on the last opened tab. Although all the git commands can still be
executed by the participants in the shared terminal, it is not as alluring as
Visual Studio Live Share which deeply integrates with git.

Participants have no way of communicating via built-in chat or call during the
session - any communication must be performed on another platform. Enterprise
users hosting on-premises servers can only have 25% of the total users online at
same time. This limitation feels arbitrarily restrictive and the only way to
increase this limit is by paying more. 

Permissions must be granted before the session starts and there is no way to
change permissions whilst the session is active. It is not possible to grant
permissions to selective participants or hide any sensitive files in the
directory. This might lead to accidental exposure of API keys.  

Although it is possible to conduct unit tests remotely via CodeTogether, support
is limited to a handful of frameworks - JUnit, TestNG, PHPUnit, and Pytest. This
list leaves out a vast number of popular frameworks.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-6" anchor-name="duckly" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-top--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Duckly" anchor="duckly" thumbnail="/img/favicons/duckly.com.svg" url="https://duckly.com/" score="3.3" >}}

Duckly ([previously known as
GitDuck](https://duckly.com/blog/gitduck-is-now-duckly/)) is a remote pair
programming and livesharing tool which allows users to share code editors,
browser windows and terminal sessions. It supports sharing code and the terminal
with up to 20 people.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-duckly.png" alt="Duckly product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-bottom--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-cost--open highlight="Duckly is free for teams with up to 6 members. A premium subscription costs $10/person/month." >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-5 icon="checklist" >}}Key features {{</ rich-title-5 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Pair programming" score="3" >}}

Duckly allows connecting with up to 20 people on a call. Team members can join
sessions via a browser or from various supported IDEs. Participants joining from
the browser have limited functionality and can only collaborate on the file the
host is currently working on. Terminal sessions can be shared in a read only or
read-write mode by installing an additional NPM package.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Communication capabilities" score="4" >}}

All sessions in Duckly start as voice calls first and team members can join chat
rooms directly without any invite. Collaboration features like video calling,
voice calling, group chat and screen share work as expected. Participants can
install a Chrome extension to co-browse websites which allows them to interact
with a website on the host's machine with a separate cursor for each team
member.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Secure collaboration" score="3" >}}

All the files shared from IDE are shared via peer-to-peer connections and are
end-to-end encrypted. Calls are made using a third-party (Daily.co) API and are
protected by AES-128 encryption. Although this provides safeguards against
unknown threat actors, team members can still accidentally edit files without
the host’s permission because all files are shared with read-write access by
default.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-like--open >}}

Duckly makes it easy to share code in real-time and work together because it
offers support for [multiple popular IDEs](https://duckly.com/tools), such as VS
Code, Android Studio and all JetBrains IDEs. Support for more is [on the
way](https://trello.com/b/nl38gbF4/duckly-transparent-roadmap). Team members can
also start collaborating directly from the browser without the need to install
and set-up an IDE.

Team members can see any active sessions and join directly from the Duckly
dashboard. Session URLs generated are human readable and can be typed easily,
unlike many other tools. The host can invite participants with a team URL, which
adds the invitee to the team, or with a visitors pass, which lets the invitee
join a single session. Duckly also analyses the commit history of the code
repository and can send invitations to past committers with a single click from
within the IDE.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-dislike--open >}}

The biggest drawback of using Duckly is the inability to debug applications
remotely. Depending on the language, the ability to run and debug applications
is an important part of remote pair programming. Although it is possible to run
programs by executing commands via the terminal, there is no straightforward way
to do so from the GUI. This makes Duckly less useful than other choices
available in the market.

Sessions can only be started from the Duckly dashboard on a web browser and it
is not possible to start sessions directly from within the IDE. Similarly,
participants must join “rooms” via the browser before joining sessions from the
IDE, which is an unusual approach. The Duckly browser tab must be kept open for
the duration of the session - if closed accidentally it would disconnect the
session from the IDE.

All participants in the pair programming session share a common undo stack, so
pressing undo reverts the last change in file without any regard for who made
the change. An NPM package must be installed to share terminal sessions which
mirrors the host’s terminal completely. This means participants see things
exactly how the host sees them, including terminal size, font size, colors etc.
Other tools only share content which is displayed according to settings defined
on the guest's machine which in our opinion is the preferred approach. It also
lacks support for sharing locally running servers.

Duckly might be suitable for small teams, but having no way to restrict team
members from joining certain sessions where other team members might be working
on private projects makes it unsuitable for big teams.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-7" anchor-name="aws-cloud9" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-top--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="AWS Cloud9" anchor="aws-cloud9" thumbnail="/img/favicons/aws.amazon.com.jpg" url="https://aws.amazon.com/cloud9/" score="2.5" >}}

AWS Cloud9 is a cloud-based IDE which runs on EC2 VMs by default (with the
option to self-host anywhere) and integrates well with the AWS ecosystem. It
allows writing, running, debugging and remote pair programming directly from the
browser.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-aws-cloud9.png" alt="AWS Cloud9 product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-bottom--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-cost--open highlight="AWS Cloud9 is free to use but users have to pay for the compute and storage resources consumed by the underlying virtual machine." >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section--open classes="framed-section-attention" >}}

{{< rich-title-5 icon="checklist" >}}Key features {{</ rich-title-5 >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Pair programming" score="3" >}}

AWS Cloud9 is hosted in the cloud and all collaborators must have an AWS account
in the same organisation to join collaborative sessions. Multiple participants
can write, run and debug applications simultaneously. It should be noted that
changes made to files are visible to everyone instantaneously, however the
output returned in terminal and debugger sessions is not visible to anyone
except the person who executed it. Any servers hosted on instance can be shared
with the internet by adjusting firewall settings.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Communication capabilities" score="2.5" >}}

AWS Cloud9 does not support audio/video calls but has chat functionality local
to the EC2 instance it is running on. This means messages are persistent between
sessions and are visible to anyone else who joins the session and has relevant
permissions. Cloud9 makes it easy to see what other members are working on with
a button to jump to their cursor; however, unlike other tools we tested, it does
not allow a permanent focus to follow their cursor as they move around files.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< framed-section-item--open >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-feature-title text="Secure collaboration" score="2" >}}

The design of Cloud9 makes it impossible to add untrusted individuals by mistake
because the participant needs to have an AWS account within the organisation
before joining the session. Cloud9 administrators can grant read-only or
read-write permissions to members as necessary. All collaborators have full
access to the host's credentials and can execute any command. Even when
read-only permissions are granted, Cloud9 does not make any attempt to filter
sensitive files such as API keys in .env files, which remain readable by all
participants.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-like--open >}}

AWS Cloud9 comes preinstalled with SDKs for over 40 programming languages
including JavaScript, Python, PHP, Ruby, Go, and C++ which means users can get
started quickly. The integrated debugger provides commonly used features like
setting breakpoints, stepping through code, and inspecting variables.

AWS Cloud9 can be set up on a managed Amazon EC2 Linux instance or any Linux
server (running on AWS or elsewhere). Managed EC2 instances can be set to
shutdown automatically to save billing costs. 

Users are granted sudo privileges to the managed Amazon EC2 instance. This
allows running commands, such as pushing code changes to git, defining custom
configurations by specifying environment variables, compiling code, or
displaying logs from servers.

AWS Cloud9 comes with a pre-authenticated AWS Command Line Interface allowing
users to easily control and interact with AWS services directly from the command
line. This includes building serverless applications, and editing and debugging
AWS Lambda functions. Users can set up continuous integration workflows to
build, test, and deploy applications to AWS with the help of AWS CodeCommit, AWS
CodeBuild, AWS CodePipeline, and AWS CodeDeploy.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-dislike--open >}}

All members who have read/write permissions have full access to the owner's AWS
access credentials. Unlike many other tools in this review, participants can
connect to Cloud9 IDE even when the owner is offline and run sensitive commands
on the owner's behalf like git commit or provision and destroy AWS
infrastructure. This can be prevented by disabling AWS managed temporary
credentials for the environment. However, this also limits functionality for the
owner.

AWS Cloud9 does not perform automatic software updates or backups, even on
managed EC2 instances. There is no way to grant permissions for specific
resources. This raises some security concerns even when all users are trusted
members of the same organisation. 

Any server running on the Cloud9 instance can only be accessed by [exposing it
to the
internet](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud9/latest/user-guide/app-preview.html#app-preview-preview-app).
This requires setting up complex security groups and firewall configurations
which if misconfigured, leaves the instance open to attacks. Other tools solve
this by establishing a private tunnel between the host and the participants.

Some features such as executing and debugging code together with participants,
the ability to permanently focus on participants, separate git identities for
participants, etc., are missing. This makes AWS Cloud9 less useful for
pair-programming.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-8" anchor-name="also-considered" >}}

#### Also considered

We considered [Floobits](https://floobits.com/) but it looks like it is no
longer maintained. We examined [Tuple](https://tuple.app/) but it is currently
only supports macOS - Linux support is on the roadmap, so will will return when
it has more cross platform support.

We also tested the following 4 tools but they did not meet our criteria for a
full review:

{{< nav-wrapper--open anchor-name="polypane" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Teletype" anchor="teletype" thumbnail="/img/favicons/teletype.atom.io.ico" url="https://teletype.atom.io/" score="none" >}}

Teletype was developed by GitHub for Atom to share workspaces in real-time. It
uses WebRTC to establish encrypted peer-to-peer connections. Users must have
Node 7+ and PostgreSQL 9.x installed, and be authenticated via GitHub before
starting a session. 

Participants can follow along with the active tab automatically and see any
changes made in real-time. Teletype is still in beta mode and lacks many of the
features offered by other tools discussed in this article. Microsoft, which owns
GitHub, already has another offering and this project appears to have been
abandoned - the last commit to Teletype was made in 2018. As such, we excluded
it from our review.

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open anchor-name="codeanywhere" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Codeanywhere" anchor="codeanywhere" thumbnail="/img/favicons/codeanywhere.com.png" url="https://codeanywhere.com/" score="none" >}}

Codeanywhere is a cloud based IDE comparable to AWS Cloud9. It runs on Ubuntu
(64-bit) containers and provides root access to the owner. All the participants
must create an account on Codeanywhere to join a session, however, only the
owner of the container is billed for the usage. The host can invite participants
directly from the dashboard and start collaborating. 

The host has full access to the instance and can access it remotely via SSH.
Sharing servers internally is not possible - all HTTP and websocket ports on the
container can be accessed via a unique URL on the internet. Codeanywhere allows
participants to collaborate by sharing common terminals, chat (which only
partially worked in our testing), and screen sharing (did not work in our
testing).

Codeanywhere opens VS Code in the browser which means any themes and extensions
installed are shared by all participants. It is not possible to share changes in
real time and any changes are only synced after the file is saved. If two people
are concurrently working on the same file, any changes made by the other are
lost when the file is saved. As such, we didn’t select it for a full review.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-codeanywhere.png" alt="Codeanywhere product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open anchor-name="replit" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Replit" anchor="replit" thumbnail="/img/favicons/replit.com.png" url="https://replit.com/" score="none" >}}

Replit is a cloud based IDE for real-time collaboration. Unlike AWS Cloud9,
users must select a programming language before creating a Repl container. The
host is given limited access to the container - logging in via ssh, executing
sudo commands, etc., is not possible.

The host can invite participants for [pair-programming
sessions](https://docs.replit.com/tutorials/05-pair-programming-using-multiplayer-with-repl-it)
via email or Replit username. All participants can type in real time or
permanently focus on other participants. Unlike most other tools we tested,
Replit has separate undo stacks - each participant can revert their own changes
without affecting the changes made by other participants. 

Participants can run code (and see the same results), see git diffs, stage, and
commit changes with their own git credentials. In addition to chat, Replit
provides threads - chat tied to a block of code. These chats are persisted
between the sessions and threads can be marked as resolved when the discussion
is complete.

Repl provides unique features such as a hosted key-value database store and a
secure way to share environment variables with participants. However, in our
testing we were not able to execute even a “Hello World!” application
successfully - all the code we tested failed with no output. This is an
interesting tool but it needs some polishing; we will revisit it in the future.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-replit.png" alt="Replit product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open anchor-name="drovio" >}}

{{< tools/category-review/card-heading name="Drovio" anchor="drovio" thumbnail="/img/favicons/www.drovio.com.png" url="https://www.drovio.com/" score="none" >}}

Drovio is a remote desktop client available on macOS, Windows and Linux. It
allows the host to share their screen with up to 10 participants who each get
their own mouse cursors to interact with the host’s desktop. The host can switch
the participant to spectator mode to restrict their access. 

Drovio can be [integrated with Slack](https://www.drovio.com/slack) to start
sessions from within chat. The participants can join sessions with the app or
with their web browser. Screen sharing, video calling, and chat functionality is
provided via [WebRTC](https://www.drovio.com/security-privacy). Enterprise
customers can host the Drovio server in their private network (no internet
connection required).

Drovio shares the entire screen irrespective of what is displayed. This allows
the participants to see what the host is seeing and interact with the system. It
can be used for remote pair-programming, but we think other tools discussed in
this article are better because they were designed specifically for online code
collaboration rather than as a generic screen sharing tool. As such we excluded
it from a full review.

{{< img-center src="/img/tools/code-collaboration-pair-programming-drovio.png" alt="Polypane product screenshot" width="100%" >}}

{{< div--close >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-9" anchor-name="faq" >}}

### FAQ

{{< tools/category-review/faq category="code-collaboration-pair-programming" >}}

{{< nav-wrapper--open id="wrapper-10" anchor-name="editorial-policy" >}}

### Our editorial policy

#### Why you can trust us

Console is written by developers for developers. Using our decades of experience
building software at scale, we apply strict
[selection criteria](/about/#selection-criteria) to decide which software we
feature.

This includes asking questions like "Would this form part of a daily-use set of
developer tools?", "Would this be used by advanced, power-users?" and "Does it
have a good graphical and/or command line interface? Shortcuts? Accessibility?".
The more of these questions we can answer positively, the more likely a tool is
to be featured.

We **do not** accept payment for inclusion and where we work with partners, they
must fit our selection criteria before we consider working with them.

{{< div--close >}}
